What you have right now is an earnings
driven market.
>> People want to get exposure to growth
and strong economy earnings go ahead.
>> Earnings momentum doesn't seem like it's
peaking.
>> If you think of what's driving these
global markets right now, [music] it's a
semiconductor super cycle for the
history books.
>> It's the casting away of fear in its
entirety that will end up being the
market's biggest problem [music] at some
point.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, [music]
and Annmarie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Friday, yields up, stocks down.
Global price pressure building sending
US 10-year yields through 450 as
borrowing costs in Japan break out to
levels not seen since the late '90s.
Gilts [music]
sinking to new lows heading into a
battle to topple the British Prime
Minister. The bond market shaken this
morning.
>> There are two things here. On one hand,
you could say that an oil price shock
would eventually be disinflationary,
[music] but only when you get demand
destruction. And right now, at least in
the world's biggest economies, you are
not seeing that level of demand
destruction because frankly, it is in
the political interest of different
parties
>> [music]
>> to keep demand strong. So, you're seeing
inflation, you're seeing it come through
in the PPIs around the world. The second
thing is it's not clear when this oil
price shock is going to end. President
Trump coming out and saying just
overnight, we don't need the Strait of
Hormuz open anyway. It is not our
problem because we have our own oil. So,
how much emphasis is there on resolving
this issue?
>> This has been building for a while.
We've been talking about it continuously
over the last several weeks. Check out
the US curve now. Twos, 10s, 30s. 10s
through 450.
30s through 5%. Leadership issues in the
UK.
>> [music]
>> An inflation problem globally. An
incoming Fed chair with a very unclear
reaction function at [music] this point.
And we often say this, the market will
always test the new Fed chair in
different ways at different times. Maybe
that test is coming slightly early.
>> And in fairness to him, he's not exactly
coming into an easy scenario. You've got
insurgent inflation globally. You've got
a fiscal impulse that is to simply
stimulate, not necessarily to curtail or
have any kind of restraint when it comes
to any kind of debt incurrence. You have
very high debt loads around the world,
and you have a new regime. We are not
going back to zero interest rates
anytime soon. And he has to fend off
with a president who doesn't want to see
this economy stall out, and with a
market that is petrified that he's going
to allow inflation become unmoored.
>> There's another force in the mix here
that I hope we spend some time on
throughout this morning, and it's the
crowding out from other places. We
caught up with the Open AI CFO, who
wants to raise more capital, even after
a massive monster raise in private
markets, Alphabet, on a $60 billion debt
binge over the last 4 months, and
ultimately likely to raise more capital
[music]
in the year ahead. There's some crowding
out here that I think is noteworthy.
>> There is an insatiable demand to raise
money to fund some of the hyperscaler
buildout, and so far they've seen
absolutely resounding demand. It seems
like there isn't enough cash to be piled
into these funds. Alphabet can go around
the world, it's sort of the world tour.
Go to Japan, go to Switzerland, go to
the European continent, raise as much
cash as you can, and everyone's
clamoring to give it to them. They're
trying to get ahead of what they are
they already anticipate to be [music]
some sort of saturation, and they want
to avoid the saturation by spreading out
the love, spreading out the debt sales.
At what point does that take away from
some of the government bonds that
frankly have a less reliable balance
sheet behind them? I mean, again, who
would you rather lend your money to
right now? Alphabet or you know, a
developed market economy?
>> And this is how the stage is set so far
this morning. Crude inching higher, up
by 3 to 4%, bonds down, yields up,
stocks sinking, down about 1% on the S&P
500, pulling back [music] from all-time
highs. Coming up this hour, we'll catch
up with Sebastian Page of T. Rowe Price
as bond yields break out, Mary Lovely of
the Peterson Institute as the US and
China extend their trade truce, and Dan
Ives of Wedbush, as Cerebra surges on
its trading debut. We begin this hour
with stocks sinking and bond yields
breaking out. Sebastian Page of T. Rowe
Price writing, "We're neutral between
stocks and bonds, balancing stronger
earnings momentum against high
valuations and macro risk. Stay
diversified, stay invested, and hedge
inflation risk." Sebastian joins us now
for more. Seb, welcome to the program.
That last line's important. Hedging
inflation risk, how much of a challenge
now is coming from the bond market?
>> I think it's a meaningful challenge,
Jonathan. You know, when you're in
investment business and you're at a
cocktail party and someone asks you for
advice or stock tips, the good thing to
say is always stay invested, stay
diversified. But right now I would say
stay invested, stay diversified, hedge
inflation risk. My message to our
clients is diversify your hedges. Lisa's
hinted at this. Treasuries won't do the
job if we get inflation volatility. We
like a portfolio of hedges. We like to
hold cash, be short duration. We like
real asset equities, energy companies,
metal companies. We actually like hedged
equities. You know, buy protection and
then you can still participate in the
rally. You give up part of the upside,
but what you end up with is a
diversified set of hedges while staying
invested because, you know what, the
earnings, Jonathan, you've been talking
about this on the show all week, they're
amazing. We thought we'd get 13%
year-over-year growth at the end of
March.
We're We're trending at 30%
year-over-year growth. Those are
massive, massive earnings surprises. So,
stay invested, stay diversified, hedge
inflation
>> Seb, I totally agree with you. And you
and I have been talking about this over
the last several months, the journey of
the last two to three months. We had the
energy shock. At times we started to see
a rate shock emerge. We're seeing that
again, globally, not just in the US, in
Japan, in the UK.
Is that going to translate into a growth
shock? Do you think we can withstand the
latter?
>> You know, if you do get a growth shock,
you will want treasuries. I'm not saying
you should just remove all treasuries
from your portfolio and just put all
this in gold. It's a diversified set of
hedges, but Jonathan, you framed this
first as a chain reaction, and it's a
slow-moving chain reaction. And I really
like liked how you framed it, right? You
were talking about an oil shock that
leads to an inflation shock that leads
to a rate shock that eventually tightens
financial conditions, and that leads to
a growth shock. I'm not too worried
about the growth shock because the
underlying US economy is running, it
looks like, at 6% nominal growth right
now, and the economic surprises are
trending up, not down, so far this year.
But this is This is the main main risk
in financial markets, Jonathan. It's the
collision course between inflation and
Fed policy. And you know, Jeff Gundlach
will say, "The way you look at this
collision course, what could force the
Fed's hand, despite all the politics
that are going in in the background, is
the two-year yield." And it's trending
up this morning. It's at 4.1%, and the
top Fed rate is at 3.75. There's There's
a dissonance there.
>> Well, Sebastian, one one speculation has
been that you might want to buy the
two-year because this Fed is not going
to raise rates under any condition,
regardless of how hot inflation gets,
unless inflation goes to 9% again. But
you will see that relief valve when it
comes to the long end of the yield curve
in terms of yields going up, and
frankly, the dollar growing weaker. Do
you uh adhere to that kind of idea?
>> No, we're hedging it Look, we're hedging
inflation, and I I do think the Fed will
have to face some very difficult
decisions. My My economist friends tell
me me to annualize two monthly data
points, but I'm going to do it just for
fun. Annualize the last two CPI prints
and you get a 5% rate. You know, I'm a
runner, I like to look at my watch when
I'm running and what's the pace right
now? Well, the pace right now of
inflation, let's say it's four, let's
say it's four and a half, let's say it's
5%. The Fed's target is two.
So, you can't maintain an easing bias at
least in the short run, Lisa.
>> In the meantime, Sebastian, one thing
that seems kind of counterintuitive in
terms of your positioning is you're
actually going more heavily into the US,
kind of undiversifying some of the
exposure on the equity side, and frankly
concentrating a lot of your exposure to
the AI trade. Why is that?
>> You know, we've done well with the
broadening trade and now we're taking
some profits. We've reduced those
positions, say small cap and especially
international, and we're moving money
from international into the US for a few
reasons, Lisa, but it's clear that
Europe is much more sensitive to the
energy shock than the US, the US being a
net exporter of oil. We think that the
AI theme is best expressed right now
amongst the many ways to express the AI
theme in US large cap growth stocks. The
earnings for US large cap growth stocks,
yes, you'll say it's a high bar, but if
you look at the projections growth for
growth for the earnings for the next 12
months, they're
they're at like 28% and this is a
all-time high for the 25 years of data
that I have on my chart. Now, this a
high bar, but those are companies that
tend to meet that high bar. So, you have
high earnings growth, high margins, and
the valuations, well,
for large cap growth in the US, they're
below the five-year average and the mag
seven, if you look at the equal index on
Bloomberg, you know, it was at 40 at the
peak, now it's at 26. So, you it's It's
it's not bubble-ish valuation in my
mind. And so, we're moving some money
especially from the international into
the US large-cap growth segment.
>> That demand is going to be met with
supply. And I'll tell you what I mean by
that. Seb, 10 years ago, in the last
decade or so, we spent a lot of time
talking about so-called asset scarcity.
Now, we're shifting towards abundance.
So, let's take the big players in the US
equity market. They were buying back a
lot of stock, and they weren't issuing a
lot of debt. That's flipped. And we're
going to get several major IPOs later
this year as well. As you switch from
scarcity to something that looks a
little bit more like abundance, how does
this market handle that?
>> Yeah, look, those companies are
transforming, and we're looking at the
CapEx. It's massive. I mean, the last
estimate I saw was for 3 trillion by
2028. Now, this is a stimulus for the
economy, but in the end, those companies
have massive margins, massive earnings
growth relative to the rest of the
market. And also, you know, relative to
history, people like to do dot-com
bubble kind of, you know, oversupply of
of of of infrastructure and overbuilding
infrastructure. I think we will get
there, and that's a risk. But for 6 to
12 months ahead views,
uh I think I think this keeps going,
Jonathan. And you know, those companies
The margins are double. The margins are
basically double what they were at the
peak of the dot-com bubble. So, you
can't really compare the valuations
here.
>> Seb, it's good to see you. As always,
Seb, thanks for being with us. Sebastian
Page there, T. Rowe Price, working
through some issues. We'll spend some
time with Dan Ives on Cerebras. What a
debut for that stock. Foaming the runway
for some major IPOs set to come maybe in
the next 12 months.
>> On one hand, you could say that the
actual shares sold much higher than the
original marketing price. And then you
see the pop, the 68% pop. And then the
follow-on today, and you think about all
the billionaires that have been created,
and you start thinking to yourself,
was that underpriced? And what does that
mean for OpenAI and for Anthropic that
could come later this year.
>> that's just the thing I'm focused on at
the moment. I don't think it's a massive
challenge right now, but it's a story
for the next 12 months. These major tech
players issuing more debt. These big
companies in private markets becoming
public and issuing more equity. They're
the kind of things that I'm laser
focused on for the next 12 months.
>> Especially because is Cerebrus truly a
guide for Open AI and Anthropic, Open AI
in particular, which has run into some
snags and had some reporting about maybe
slower bookings than they had expected.
>> Futures down this morning by 1% on the
S&P 500 with an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief,
Yahaira Hasmar. Hi, Yahaira.
>> Good morning, [music] John.
President Trump has departed China after
2 days of talks with Xi Jinping, the
Chinese president hailing the summit,
touting a new bilateral relationship.
Details about any commercial deals
reached remain scarce and could be
announced in the future.
President Trump saying President Xi
offered to help in getting the Strait of
Hormuz reopened. Trump telling Fox
[music] News that the US doesn't need it
opened and that the blockage serves to
help Israel and other Gulf allies.
And as you all were just discussing, we
are [music] seeing Cerebrus shares
actually lower nearly 3% in the
premarket amid the broader chip and
[music] market sell-off. Its shares
surged 68% yesterday in its trading
debut with the AI chipmaker raising 5
and [music] 1/2 billion dollars in this
year's largest IPO yet. That's your
Bloomberg brief, John.
>> Yahaira, thank you. More from Yahaira
later this hour. Up next on the program,
maintaining a trade truce.
>> This has been an incredible visit
and I think a lot of
a lot of good has come of it.
And we've made some fantastic trade
deals, great for both countries.
>> In just a moment, we'll catch up with
Mary Lovely of the Peterson Institute
and Anne Marie on the ground in Beijing,
China. Live from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
>> As of Thursday's close, all-time highs
on the S&P 500 heading towards a seventh
consecutive weekly gain. The longest
weekly winning streak potentially going
all the way back to December 2023. This
morning, we're taking a bite out of that
gain. We're down 1% on the S&P. [music]
We're -1.4% on the Nasdaq 100. At the
epicenter of some of the jitters this
morning, these moves in the bond market.
2s 10s 30s stay side. 2s through 4%.
[music] 10s through 450. 30s sticking
above 5%. Similar moves taking place
globally. Much larger moves in the UK.
Leadership problems there. In Japan,
really hot PPI [music]
coming out of the Japanese economy.
Japanese yields at levels we haven't
seen since the 1990s.
>> Yeah, and this comes after the hot PPI
print that we got in the United States.
Just to give you a sense of how hot it
was, producer prices in Japan jumped
4.9% [music]
last month. That was compared to an
estimate of 3%. It gives you a sense of
just how much faster some of this
inflationary pressure [music] is than
people expected.
>> 25-year highs right out of Japan. Major
major numbers out of Japan. Numbers that
were unthinkable going back a couple of
decades. Looking at the energy market,
this is not helping. Bring crude higher
by 3% on WTI. Bring crude up by 3% as
well. The president asked about the
situation in the Middle East. Asked
about reopening the Strait of Hormuz.
This is where we really haven't moved
things forward. Zero progress in the
past few days.
>> Yeah, not only that, but he just went to
we don't need the Strait of Hormuz,
especially if the allies aren't going to
help because they rely on it
significantly more than the United
States. Possibly this [music] is why
you're seeing a bigger sell-off over in
Europe since that economy is much more
dependent on that. He went on to say
from a military standpoint, Iran is
finished. But they're [music] clogging
up the Strait of Hormuz. A real question
here about what the deliverables were. A
lot of niceties between agreements
between the US and China about some sort
of Iranian help or some sort of mutual
understanding. Not seeing any details
that could give people comfort this
morning.
>> rally in the energy [music] market
throughout the whole of this week and we
end to it. WTI 104, Brent crude close
again on 109. And the Savannah's this
morning maintaining a trade truce.
>> This has been an incredible visit.
And I think a lot of
a lot of good has come of it.
We've made some fantastic trade deals,
great for both countries.
Uh
he's a man I respect greatly.
We've become really friendly. We've
known each other now 11 years, almost 12
years. That's a long time.
And we've settled a lot of different
problems that other people wouldn't have
been able to settle.
>> Here's the latest this morning.
President Donald Trump and Xi Jinping
announcing important trade deals. The
two nations agreeing to stabilize
relations without any major
breakthroughs. Amory on the ground in
Beijing, China and joins us now for
more. Amory, the president's own words
that we've been able to settle a lot of
different problems. What problems have
we settled on this trip?
>> [snorts]
>> It's a great question, Jonathan. Lots of
smiles on this trip, not a lot of
substance at least given to the press in
terms of what Xi Jinping and President
Donald Trump decided on. When it comes
to trade, though, that's what this White
House really wants to focus on. I spoke
to Ambassador Jamison Greer earlier this
morning. He reiterated that the what the
president had also said to Fox News in
terms of Boeing jets, but only 200,
Jonathan. Remember the expectation going
into this trip was maybe an order as big
as 500. Ambassador Greer also talked
about massive agricultural products that
China was going to be willing to buy.
We're still waiting on more details
though and clarity from the Chinese side
about what exactly they are going to
purchase. And then when it comes to an
item like rare earths, remember this is
when the negotiated
negotiations last year got really tense
because China started to use rare earth
licenses as a real negotiating tool.
Jameson Greer said he's giving them a
passing grade. So almost feels like
we're going back to where this
relationship was before the trade war.
One place where we know there's clarity
on and a place that didn't get a whole
lot of discussion according to
Ambassador Greer was chips. Tons of
speculation that semi conductors and
export controls was going to be on the
negotiating table because Jensen Huang's
last minute appearance on this trip and
Jameson Greer says it wasn't. Take a
listen.
>> You want to make sure you strike a
balance between national security,
protecting high-tech, but also making
sure that we're benefiting from overseas
markets. And so those are the kinds of
things that went into the H200 decision.
As to whether the Chinese are going to
buy or not, again, they're making their
own determinations. They're very
committed to domestic production.
>> Ambassador Greer there making it very
clear it's going to be up to China to
determine whether or not they are going
to buy those H200s.
>> Anne-Marie, fantastic conversation.
Looking forward to hearing more of that
later on in the program. We'll catch up
with AMH in the next hour. This came
from Emily Goodwin of the New York Post.
You'll be told this was a great meeting.
The relations between the two nations
have improved. Take a listen to this.
American staff took everything that the
Chinese officials handed out.
Credentials, burner phones from White
House staff, pins for delegations,
collected them before we got on Air
Force One and threw them in a bin at the
bottom of the stairs. Nothing from China
was allowed on the plane. That's the
real state of the relationship between
China and the United States.
>> There is a lot of speculation about
exactly what was accomplished and
potentially how tense some of these
relations have remained despite some of
the niceties. And that clearly is the
uncertainty feeding out through a lot of
the different reporting.
>> Join us now to discuss Mary Lovely of
the Peterson Institute. She writes the
following. The summit has succeeded in
maintaining a tactical truce, but failed
to achieve resolution in the major
irritants in the relationship." Mary
joins us now for more. Mary, welcome to
the program. Let's just start with those
major irritants, because there will be
another summit potentially in September.
What are they?
>> Well, Emery just talked about chips.
Clearly, the Chinese have
balked at the US export controls. They
have since moved on. They're now devoted
to their own development of their own
domestic chips.
But, if we look back at the last year,
we can see that the main irritants or
the most proximate irritants were
President Trump's acceleration of the
tariffs that had been placed on China in
its his first term. And then the Chinese
invoking new export controls on critical
minerals. A
potentially very disruptive move for US
industry and the US move to rearm
following the war in Iran.
So, where did we get with any of that?
As far as we know, there may have been
some trade discussed particularly by
Secretary Blinken and his Chinese
counterpart. But,
between the two principals, I think we
have seen that there was no discussion
of export controls and very little
accomplished on the trade front. So, the
irritants really are still there.
>> Mary, I've heard conflicting reports
about whether this was a good meeting or
a bad meeting. Some people say at least
nothing bad happened in terms of some
sort of big blow-up. On the flip side,
there wasn't even an affirmation of some
of the truces that we've seen when it
comes to tariffs and rare earths over
the past couple of months. What's your
take on this?
>> Well, President Xi stressed stability,
but he wasted absolutely no time in
giving
the American president the
tongue-lashing over Taiwan, which means
that what we saw in China earlier this
year, a sense of confidence
and growing power clearly was on
display.
The relationship overall is framed in
exactly the terms that Beijing likes to
use. The first is primacy. The US China
relationship is the most important in
the world.
Is it the most important to the United
States? What about our allies?
Win-win. President Xi always likes to
talk about the relationship in win-win
or mutually gainful terms. Yet the
President Trump since 2017
has been talking about China as someone
who's ripped the United States off. So
how is that going to be win-win? And
then lastly, President Xi likes to
describe the relationship as one of
partners, not rivals.
What about the AI race? What about
actions in the South China Sea? How have
we suddenly become partners and these
issues that have to do with conflicting
goals are suddenly papered over. So I
think rather than just
a visit that accomplished nothing, this
actually set us back in terms of where
we are with the Chinese.
>> In the meantime, what actually happened
with all the CEOs from the United States
who went over there? Do you have a sense
of whether they accomplished anything or
were involved in any of these meetings?
>> We don't have any sense of that. I
think, you know, Amory talked about how
that the chip sales there's been
crickets on that. So we really don't
know why they stopped to pick up Jensen
Huang in in Alaska.
The other CEOs were there I suppose to
show their support for the US China
commercial relationship, which remains
important and is a good thing.
But as far as addressing
some of the problems these firms have
experienced in serving the Chinese
market, I think we've heard nothing.
>> Mary, what do you suppose the future is
of the political question around this
relationship domestically in the US, the
president did such a powerful job many
years ago of really highlighting how
damaged people and communities were in
this country from Chinese overcapacity
and the hollowing out of manufacturing
domestically in the US. That became a
rare bipartisan issue in Washington DC.
Is that a political priority anymore
going into the midterms later this year
and ultimately for the next general?
>> Well, I've always thought the harm was
real, but the the diagnosis was flawed
there. We know that um just attacking
China is not an answer to what the US
needs to be doing to heal itself. So, um
I think that now that the president has
decided that we need stability in this
relationship, that going in an
alternative route will actually cause
more harm than good, we need to turn at
home and say, "Okay, then what are we
doing at home to meet the challenges
that are before us?" The same challenges
we had before.
>> Mary, appreciate it. As always, Mary
Lovely there
>> [music]
>> of the Peterson Institute. There's a lot
of building to be done. There's a lot of
building being done already.
>> Yeah, and this again people talk about
the reindustrialization of the United
[music] States. Where does China fit
into that?
>> Coming up on the program, we'll catch up
with Dan Ives of Wedbush as tech IPOs
ramp up. Plus, your hire has your
morning movers Cerberus climbing higher
once again through yesterday this
morning. Down 2%
Today, when you see Connie S&P 500
back-to-back all-time highs on the S&P
on the Nasdaq, pulling back this
morning. We're down by 1% on the S&P 500
on the Nasdaq down by 1.4. On the
Russell, -1 percentage point. In the
bond market, twos, [music] 10s, 30s look
like this. Had a warm CPI print early
this week, a smoking hot PPI print in
the US and [music] in Japan. Yields up
across the curve worldwide, not just
stateside, up by six basis points on a
10-year in the US, up by 13 in Japan on
a 30-year. In the UK, some real
leadership issues [music] in the UK.
Check it out, the 10-year up by 15 basis
points, 5.14
on gilts in the UK.
>> I never thought I would know so much
about the intricacies and politics of a
political race in the UK, but evidently
now I know about Andy Burnham and a
Streeter Streed Streed excuse me, I'm
I'm getting it who might be running
against him and that Andy Burnham needs
to have a parliamentary seat before he
can become uh the Prime Minister, so he
resigned from being the mayor. Look, all
of this to say, there's a lot of
uncertainty about who's going to run in
uh the United King Who's going to run
the United Kingdom and what kind of
fiscal policy they're going to come out
with [music] because Andy Burnham, I
believe, has called himself part of the
soft left uh if labeling himself as
something of a socialist and there seems
to be a disbelief in the bond markets
that he can resurrect [music] himself
after saying that he thinks that the
bond markets have too much power. So, at
this point, there definitely is a bit of
bond vigilanteism, but it isn't just
isolated to the UK. [music] It is a
global phenomenon.
>> know where this term is coming from, the
soft left. We can spend some time on
that later in the program, but yes,
certainly, it's not just the UK. [music]
The UK's got its own very narrow issues,
but they're shared elsewhere as well.
Japan's got deficit problems. It's now
got inflation problems. All of this is
building. And what's interesting about
this moment in the bond market, just
take a step back and compare where we
were 10 years ago. When you and I first
met, we were talking about fixed income,
[music] the anchors around global fixed
income, JGBs,
German bunds. Not anymore. Anchors away.
Yields up and that's been building now
for several years and it makes it very,
very difficult for politicians like that
to come out and say, "Yeah, we're not
going to be beholden to the bond
market." Well, then the bond market's
got something to say about that.
>> Because it is global and you can't push
against a steam [music]
steamroller. We were talking about how
Japan there was no inflation. Well,
that's a different story right now. And
over in Germany, there was not spending.
Well, that's changed [music] as well.
There is a feeling that if there were to
be some sort of economic downturn, yes,
you would see the haven bid into bonds,
but that could potentially be a problem
child because guess what every
government's going to do? They're going
to try to borrow more to fuel some sort
of growth at a time when deficits are
pretty high. This is a difficult time
where it's hard to understand exactly
what levers fiscal and monetary
authorities have to change this back to
a low rate regime once again.
>> Good luck doing that stateside. The
10-year and 30-year closing at a new
high for the year throughout this week
and now two starting to break out above
four.
The two-year, the move at the front end
of the curve, let's just isolate that
just for a moment. Got an incoming Fed
chair, Kevin Warsh. Got a market pushing
back [music] a two-year above the policy
rate and a central banker put in a
position the president believes he's
going to make a push to cut interest
rates.
This market's going to test [music] that
and you're starting to feel that test
this morning.
>> We've priced in a full rate hike come
April of next year. Not only is this
market saying, "We'll take your easing
bias and throw it in the trash along
with any kind of burner phone." Uh going
forward, it seems like they believe this
Federal Reserve will be pressured to
hike rates. Sebastian Page saying that
the two-month annualized inflation rate
would be closer to 5%. [music]
What Fed can arguably look at this, say,
"If inflation is a choice, this is what
we're choosing." That's not [music]
going to fly for markets.
>> 4.05% on twos so far this morning.
Counting you down to the open in about
three as of way with your morning
movers. Seana has more. Hi Seana.
>> Hi John. The names that have run up the
most this year, the chip makers are all
under pressure amid this market sell-off
and it all started over in Asia with
names like Samsung and SK Hynix [music]
sinking and it's spilling over into the
US with Nvidia, Broadcom, and Intel all
lower and even Cerebras falling 3%
[music]
the newest AI chip darling surged 68%
yesterday in its market debut. We have
seen these sort of pullbacks before in
the chip sector. It's failed to
materialize into something broader,
something [music] bigger which some are
calling for. We'll see if it's different
today. Also getting caught up in that
sell-off is Applied Materials. Shares
[music] are down 3% after delivered a
massive beat and a raise due to AI,
which is fueling [music] 30% growth in
its chip equipment business this year,
helping to push margins to their widest
[music]
level in 25 years. Yet, the market
giving it no credit for that. [music]
And we end on shares of Papa John's.
They are uh rising nearly 5% in the
premarket on a Reuters report that Earth
Capital is now working with the
company's largest US franchisee [music]
on a potential take private deal. This
is a company that has struggled with
weaker sales and tougher competition
from [music] the likes of Domino's and
likely your local pizza joint, John.
>> Yohana, thank you. Thanks for the
update. More from Yohana later this
hour. On our radar this morning,
President Donald Trump and Chinese
leader Xi Jinping failing to reach a
breakthrough on the Iran war. China
calling for a reopening of the Strait of
Hormuz. President Trump saying it's not
a priority for the US.
>> They need the strait more than we need
it open.
>> We don't need it at all. We're We don't
need it at all.
>> We don't need it at all.
>> Fair enough.
>> We're doing it to help Israel and to
help Saudi Arabia and to help uh Qatar
and other countries.
>> The president adding China agreed not to
supply Iran with military equipment.
Elsewhere, UK gilt yields on track for
their biggest weekly increase going back
to March. Prime Minister Keir Starmer
facing increasing pressure to step down
as fellow Labour Party members prepare a
formal challenge to his leadership. And
finally, Alphabet going on a
record-breaking debut binge. The Google
debt binge, rather. The Google parent
company raising about $3.6 billion in
the largest yen-denominated bond deal by
a foreign company. Alphabet tapping
global debt markets for about 60 billion
over the past 4 months.
>> Yeah, and this highlights how much
companies are shifting overseas as they
start to see a little bit of tiredness
from US investors. I don't don't to
overplay this because still US investors
have seen the outperformance of
tech-related debt over the past 6 months
and said we need to get a piece of that.
At the same time, they don't want to end
up with exhausted US investors that have
overly concentrated indexes and then
have to go create a market over in Japan
and over in Switzerland and over in the
UK. What's interesting to me is there
hasn't been this type of issuance from
tech investors over in the likes of
Japan or Switzerland or the European
continent ever. This is all of a sudden
skyrocketing the proportion of US tech
debt in those indexes, which again, how
can you diversify geographically? You
made this point yesterday, I thought it
was really salient. How do you diversify
geographically when you're exposed to
the same thing everywhere you go?
>> You feel like you're just in the same
trade everywhere. South Korea, Japan,
whatever it is. As for Alphabet, I I
believe that number over the last 4
months is bigger than anything they've
issued in the history of the company
before that. That's a major switch. We
mentioned this with Sebastian. I think
this is going to be an important theme
for the next 12 months or so. We've gone
from asset scarcity to abundance. These
companies weren't building, now they're
building masses upon masses of things
across this country and our sweat. Now
let's just isolate it to the tech
sector. They were buying back a lot of
equity. Massive buybacks and not issuing
a lot of debt. Now things are starting
to change. It's the opposite now.
They're buying back less and now they're
issuing more. And on top of that, what
will you see for IPOs? You're going to
see more IPOs in the year ahead now from
the likes of SpaceX, from Anthropic,
from OpenAI. I remember coming out of
the pandemic and people saying things
like there was an asset scarcity. There
was a scarcity of good assets. They were
getting bid up by a lot of money. And
now they're getting issued a lot of
paper in lots of different places in the
next 12 months. The forces are changing
and changing quickly.
>> Yeah, the one offset to that is that the
bookings have been accelerating faster
than the growth in debt. And the
than the pace of the build-out of some
of this infrastructure until now. And
you've seen that from Microsoft. You've
seen that from Meta. Any kind of miss on
the pace of bookings, the bar is that
that much higher for it to exceed the
increase in spending. And if it doesn't,
well, those shares are going to get
hammered. Again, it goes to the point of
how much are these becoming
[clears throat] increasingly utilities
versus say some of the growth stocks
that they used to be. That doesn't seem
to be on the radar at least in
performance on a number of the big
high-flyers.
>> headline act of the last 24 hours,
Cerebras, delivering the best opening
day since 2000, the stock jumping 68%
after raising 5.5 billion in the year's
largest IPO. The AI chip maker setting
the tone for a year of blockbuster
public offerings including SpaceX,
OpenAI, and Anthropic. Dan Ives of
Wedbush writing, "Cerebras is a
watershed moment for the tech sector.
The appetite for AI exposed companies
are high in the market." Dan joins us
now for more. Dan, for an IPO of that
size of more than 4 billion, that is the
best performance we've seen on a single
day going back to 2000. Does it feel
throthy or is this a different moment?
>> Look, it does. I mean, you know, we've
talked about it a lot. I mean, this is
an AI revolution. And when it comes to
the chip trade, that's going to continue
to move higher because demand to supply,
and we've talked about it from, you
know, Nvidia, 10 to 1.
And that ripple effect is across the
board from inference to infrastructure.
And that's what investors are focused on
around the world. And this is something
you said, it's it's really just the
appetizer to what's going to be as we go
into SpaceX, OpenAI, Anthropic, and
others in terms of tech.
>> You are the bull on steroids, Dan. I
think you'll be comfortable with that
particular description of your approach
to this market. When do you start to get
nervous about what's happening here?
>> Look, it and I I get that the sort of
view. To me, it if I was sitting in an
office building and just looking at a
spreadsheet, okay, then maybe that
that's how you could sort of buy the
bears, that's how they're looking at it.
I go look at my when I was in Asia just
a few weeks ago, demand to supply was
accelerating 20%
quarter over a quarter. So, when I see
companies, if they start to slow down
their pace of spending, that's where I
can start to get negative. But, to some
extent, just continues to increase. And
I think in this nine-inning game,
baseball game, third inning, one out,
man on second.
>> At this point, Dan, Cerebras is a bit
different than OpenAI or Anthropic,
given the fact that it produces chips,
which it doesn't produce CPUs or GPUs.
Last night, I was learning about wafers
and wafer system engines, which is
essentially the full-page sized chip
that they sell. How much are we seeing a
very different type of response in
markets to the IPO of Cerebras that
can't really foreshadow what we could
see with some of the big IPOs coming
later this year.
>> Sure, it's a great point. I mean, look,
everyone, you can't put them all in the
same bucket. But, when it comes to
inferencing and what we see in terms of
the overall demand for the trillions of
dollars spent, you need to power. And
when it comes to the chips, that right
now on the supply chain, it's not just
about Nvidia. We've talked about chip
rally. We still think 15, 20% higher, at
least. From AMD, you've seen it go out
to Intel, and obviously, you've seen the
reaction here. But, I think it just
speaks to the second, third, fourth
derivatives around the AI trade. I mean,
and that's our view. And I think
software is included there. It's why I
believe we'll be looking at Nasdaq
30,000 over the next 6 to 9 months.
That's driven not just by big tech, by
the second, third, fourth derivatives of
what's going on this revolution.
>> One thing people have noted, Dan, is
that there are going to be winners and
losers. You've talked about that as
well. I think about some of the IPOs
that are on deck, and then some of the
negative press around one name in
particular, OpenAI, now in news with
respect to a breakdown in the
relationship with Apple. Are you getting
a little more nervous that they're
losing their thunder to Anthropic, and
that even with overall things really
accelerating, that will be one loser
potentially in the not so distant
future.
>> Yeah, look, right now I mean the the
narrative is a bit negative, but I think
that's actually uh much different than
the reality. I I think they're going to
be one of the core winners when it comes
to enterprise. They've obviously gone
through a lot of changes relative to
Microsoft and relative to some of these
deals. You see the Apple news, the Musk
trial. So, we're going through one of
those periods, but when I think about
winners over the long term, I mean
they're
they're at the centerpiece. And
best model and what they've done is
almost historical, I think you cannot
paint these companies with a brush just
based on near-term news. This is just
the beginning, and OpenAI is going to be
one of the foundations of the AI
revolution.
>> All right, Dennis got to catch up, as
always, what a move in yesterday's
session. Dennis
of what Bush happening right now on Air
Force One. The president just engaging
with reporters, getting some headlines
from that particular conversation,
saying she and I agree on trade very
much. He didn't ask China for favors
when it comes to Iran. He goes on to say
on Taiwan, we'll make a determination
about arms sales to Taiwan. We think
we'll be fine on the issue of Taiwan.
>> That's probably not enough detail to
give people any sense of exactly what's
going on. That could mean a couple of
things, including that that was part of
the discussions, and that that could be
revisited. There already have been arms
sales that have been promised to Taiwan.
Will the US go through with those those
particular transactions?
>> We'll try and get you some more on this.
The president on Air Force One making
his way back to the United States. Let's
give you an update on stories worldwide
this morning with your Bloomberg brief.
Yohai Raav has more. Hey, Yohai Raav.
>> Hi, John. Well, as President Trump
departs China, another world leader is
coming.
>> [music]
>> The South China Morning Post reporting
Russian President Vladimir Putin will
visit Beijing next Wednesday. This will
be Putin's first trip abroad this year.
Meanwhile, we are seeing shares of
Boeing uh falling just slightly as
investors [music] react with some
disappointment to President Trump's
announcement that China agreed to buy
200 Boeing jets in a multi-billion
[music] dollar deal. Bloomberg
Intelligence reports the market had been
expecting an order of 300 aircraft or
more.
And Apple and OpenAI's partnership is on
the rocks. Sources telling us here on
Bloomberg, the AI startup [music] is
exploring possible legal actions after
not seeing the expected benefits from
its deal. [music] No final decision has
been made. That's your Bloomberg brief,
John.
>> Yeah, Arsalan, thank you. More from
Mihara in the next hour. Up next on the
program, the [music] UK's leadership
revolt.
>> We are stuck in a in a world of
governments that don't focus enough on
on growth. It's all going to be quite
drawn out, and if we got to an end
conclusion, we would still have a a
Labour government that at the moment is
fixated on [music] lots of things that
don't include growing the economy more
quickly.
>> We'll have that conversation in just a
moment with Jay Ali Barada Chief [music]
TD Securities live from New York City.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
Happening right now on Air Force One,
the president conducting a conversation
with reporters getting a read out of
that, just some headlines dropping
across the Bloomberg terminal. Going to
share some more of these headlines with
you. What's interesting here is what the
president is telling us wasn't discussed
with the Chinese.
>> [music]
>> We didn't discuss tariffs with China.
We didn't talk about the H200 [music]
chip coming out of Nvidia that we were
talking about through this week. Didn't
discuss that either. It's curious that
they didn't talk about tariffs. It seems
almost difficult [music] to believe that
that didn't come up in conversations.
>> And it checks out with some of the
commentary about some of the purchase
commitments [music]
from President uh from from Xi Jinping
to the United States, whether it's GE
engines or whether it's soybeans.
[music]
But what President Trump was saying they
talked about about Taiwan is sure to
raise a lot of eyebrows saying that he
doesn't [music] want to see a fight over
Taiwan, that that would be a strong
confrontation, and we'll see what we're
going to do when it comes to arm sales.
>> We'll come back to these headlines
throughout this morning. Equities this
morning down by 0.8% on the S&P,
negative [music] by more than 1% on the
Nasdaq. Some weight on the tape born in
the bond market this morning. Yields up
across the curve, not just stateside,
but in the UK by a whole lot more. Check
out the UK. [music] The UK up by double
digits on a session.
The 10-year right now up by 13-14 basis
points, 5:13
on 10s. Under Savannah's this morning,
the UK's leadership revolt.
>> We are stuck in a in a world of
governments that don't focus enough on
on growth. [music] It's all going to be
quite drawn out, and if we got to an end
conclusion, we would still have a a
Labour government, but at the moment is
fixated on lots of things that don't
include growing the economy more
quickly. We don't look like escaping
this until someone comes in and says,
"We need more growth."
>> So here's the latest this morning in UK
markets. Yields up, the pound nearing
its worst week since '24. A potential
challenge from Manchester Mayor Andy
Burnham casting doubt on Prime Minister
Keir Starmer's political future. Joining
us now from Downing Street, Bloomberg's
Lizzie Burden. Lizzie, just describe the
characters involved and set the stage
for the next couple of weeks in British
politics.
>> Well, no formal challenge has been made
yet, John, but Andy Burnham taking the
first step to topple Keir Starmer here.
He is known as the King of the North,
very popular as Greater Manchester
Mayor. He's PolyMarket odds favorite to
replace Starmer. He's the only senior UK
politician who polls positively among
voters, according to YouGov, a polling
organization.
And yes, he's got past the first step.
There is a seat opening up for him to
stand in, but there are so many hurdles
in the way. He's still got to be
approved by Labour's National Executive
Committee. He's got to win this
by-election and Reform are going to
throw the kitchen sink at this election.
It was a seat where they had the high
the sixth highest vote share across the
country back in 2024, but apparently
Burnham wants to stand against Reform so
that he can say I beat Nigel Farage in a
by-election, I can beat him in a general
election. If he does manage to win the
by-election, then he's got to have 81
Labour MPs back him in a leadership to
get to a leadership contest, and then
he'd likely be standing against the
former number two Angela Rayner, and
maybe the former health secretary Wes
Streeting. Although curiously, notably,
in just the past few minutes, John, Wes
Streeting has posted on X that the best
Andy Burnham has the best chance of
winning this by-election. We need our
best players on the pitch. There's no
doubt Andy Burnham is one of them. So,
keeping his cards
close to his chest in the sense that he
isn't challenging Starmer yet. He's
actually backing Burnham in this
by-election.
>> Lizzie, appreciate the update. Lizzie
Burden there covering the UK politics
for us. You see it playing out pretty
clearly in UK assets. The future is
uncertain. It's unclear Brammo as to
whether Andy Burnham even wins the
by-election. There's a couple of hurdles
to get through before we even talk about
taking over from Keir Starmer.
>> That said, the longer this goes on, the
more uncertainty there is around the
fiscal backdrop of the UK, and that is
not helping either the bond picture or
frankly the currency.
>> Here's the take from Jay Ti Panabaker of
TD Securities writing the following. We
expect the pound to remain under
pressure versus the US dollar and the
euro as political friction plays out in
the UK. Jay Ti joins us now for more.
Jay Ti, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> What is specifically a UK problem right
now? Because we see global bond yields
rising, but the UK much more so. What's
specific about the UK issues?
>> Um you know, as we were just discussing,
it's clearly the political risk premium
playing out in there especially after
Burnham yesterday because there's a
massive risk premium associated with
him. He's clearly very popular, but he's
popular because he's talking about a lot
of fiscal easing policies. He talks
about housing projects, infrastructure
projects, social spending, you know,
public welfare programs. All of them
cost money, which is something that gilt
markets do not like given that UK's debt
to GDP is surprisingly very high for the
economy. That usually raises concern if
the UK can balloon up that deficit given
their potential growth is let's say
lower than the US economy. So that is
what's weighing on the pound and gilts
right now.
>> How much is the US unique in terms of
avoiding this type of dynamic? We've
seen sort of little signs around the
margins that different types of policies
could unleash this type of reaction. Do
you see that in the cards in terms of
some sort of Fed reaction to higher
inflation leading to a response in the
dollar?
>> Um so that's a very good question
because I think the US up until let's
say 2025 would not trade like
emerging market which the UK is, which
is where even if there were any fiscal
concerns in the US markets would just
ignore it off and then treasuries were a
lot more resilient. Since the last one
and a half year a lot of things have
changed and you have seen a little bit
of signs of that emerging market trading
behavior in the US and the US dollar as
well, which is where around the one big
beautiful bill treasuries did start
getting a little bit of concern. Uh so
that's something very different from the
last year. Even right now in the
conflict you can see that the dollar is
really struggling to rally. US
treasuries, you know, are selling off.
There's so much inflation concern, but
the broad dollar as a whole is really
struggling to meaningfully rally and
behave like the safe haven it was. Even
if you go back to 2022, which is when we
had the last big oil price shock, the
dollar massively rallied in that year.
If you look at how it is trading right
now, it's very mediocre compared to
that.
>> How much is this a story about policy
and how much is this a story about the
debt overhang in developed markets that
is dwarfing some emerging markets and
leading frankly to a more haven type
trading in a number of emerging
currencies versus the developed ones?
>> Uh I think uh I wouldn't say that's the
the debt concern in the US is not the
main driver. I think the main driver has
been that the US instead of being like
shielded from the global shocks of the
world has now become the driving
emanating source of it thanks to US
policy. There's so much uncertainty
coming from the US instead of the US
being shielded from the global shocks. I
think that has led to a big perception
shift around people just blindly pulling
money into US assets and then also doing
it in the US dollar. So we've seen
marginal allocation of global wallets
now go to equities outside the US, to
global commodities. That's a big shift
and clearly the the deficit profile I
think has been marginal chips in the
armor. You've not seen one big move in
the treasury suddenly, but there's been
clear chips in the US armor over the
last year and a half.
>> Year and a half cuts for this year now,
right? Over at the Federal Reserve.
>> Yes.
>> That's a change from you guys.
>> Yes. That has changed.
>> I honestly the incoming data in the US
has been more resilient. You know, the
labor market side of the story is
staying stable, unemployment rate rate
stays stable. With that, inflation has
clearly started surprising to the
upside. The PPI report recently was a
big surprise to the upside. And
interestingly, while you're seeing that
uh
and and and energy as you should, some
of the core services side also remain
resilient. So that forms a picture where
the Fed should not be in a hurry to ease
interest rates again. Clearly in the
last Fed meeting the bias had already
started to shift because there was a
hawkish descent which had not been noted
in quite some time. With the energy
price shock and the fact that the US
economy remains resilient, the Fed
should not be in a hurry to ease
interest rates, which I'm sure will be a
problem for Walsh given uh the person
who appointed him wants him to do it.
>> You're not allowed on that call, [music]
either.
That list is getting longer and longer.
Jared, she's going to see you. Thank
you. Jared Dillian today of TD
Securities. Coming up next, Alicia
Levine of HSBC, Henrietta Treyz of Evan
Partners, Lorraine Hutchinson of Bank of
America, Seb Rochette of SocGen. The
second hour of Bloomberg Surveillance
just around [music] the corner.
>> The labor market is still in this
balanced environment, whereas inflation
is moving away from the 2% target.
>> It's a pretty good economy, but that
doesn't mean there's not tensions.
>> For [music] the vast majority of this
Federal Reserve, just doing nothing is
tightening.
>> The case for a rate cut [music] here
gets tougher and tougher.
>> There's a greater probability priced in
of a hike.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
AnnMarie Hordern.
>> Live [music] from New York City this
morning. Good morning. Good morning to
our audience worldwide. The second hour
of Bloomberg Surveillance starts right
now. And [music] your scores look like
this. Here's the price action this
Friday morning. We're negative by 0.8%.
We've had quite a run. We were poised
for a seventh [music] consecutive weekly
gain on the S&P 500. This morning, we
take a bite out of that rally. On the
Nasdaq, down by 1.4 percentage points.
Some of the nervousness in fixed [music]
income, yields up across the curve. Twos
north of 4%. Tens through 450. Your
10-year this morning up five basis
points.
>> [music]
>> Calvasina of RBC Capital said earlier
this morning that when we start getting
to about 5%, all of a sudden [music]
it's risk off completely. And it really
throws away some of the bull cases. That
said, there's one-two punch here. On one
hand, you've got inflation [music] that
seems to be resurgent around the world,
yields going higher. On the other hand,
people are getting a little nervous
after the likes of Nvidia rallied 20% in
the past seven trading sessions, [music]
adding $900 of value to their market
capitalization when they add a Berkshire
Hathaway to their valuation in [music]
seven trading days, people start to say
maybe this is getting a little heavy.
>> Catching a flight to China is worth $100
billion in market cap.
>> I mean,
>> [music]
>> clearly.
>> More than $100 billion.
>> More. I mean, it's a pretty it's a
pretty lucrative plane plane trip.
>> That's the tech move. We'll talk lots
about that throughout this morning. Also
this [music] bond move, the energy
story, really hot PPI coming out of
Japan, the leadership issues
>> [music]
>> in the UK, the uncertainty, the lack of
clarity around the reaction function of
an incoming Fed chair.
>> [music]
>> This is really important. Kevin Warsh is
getting an early test from the bond
market. The yield on the two-year, just
to isolate that point of the curve
trading above the policy rate of the
Federal Reserve. Starting to think
[music] more and more about the risk,
maybe not the base case, but the risk of
a rate hike.
>> It is [music] feasible to have an easing
bias when you have disinflation. When
you have re-acceleration of inflation,
it becomes a very different proposition.
And re-acceleration in inflation led by
myriad different factors. This isn't
just energy. When you strip out energy
and food, you [music] still see
inflation running hot, tied in part to
the hyperscaler spending and other
materials and mining equipment. So,
you're looking at all of this and you're
saying, what happens if the Fed doesn't
[music] hike rates? Well, that's long
end of the yield curve. And oh, by the
way, this is global. As you've mentioned
before, there aren't sort of the
linchpins [music] of Japanese bonds at
0% with them owning the market. You take
a step back. We have ended the zero rate
regime and we are so far away from that.
And how much are monetary policy makers
prepared to enter
>> [music]
>> a stagflationary type of type of feel.
>> And to geopolitics, let's talk about
this. The president having a little
gaggle on Air Force One right now, a
conversation with reporters, getting
more and more headlines from this. Lots
on Taiwan, we'll spend some time on
that, but this just crossed. On Iran, on
enriched material, if we don't get the
nuclear dust, we'll go in. The president
of the United States just moments
[music] ago.
>> Yeah, one thing after another that's
giving people the jitters that maybe the
ceasefire is irrevocably broken or at
least that we seem to be entering
[music] a more fraught scenario. This
also comes with the president saying
that we don't need the Strait of Hormuz,
also saying that they've been militarily
defeated already, but still there's that
issue of the Strait of Hormuz.
Very mixed [music] messages coming from
the president. Either way, the bar for
re- escalation seems to have gotten a
lot lower, especially with the
deliverables from this meeting in China.
>> Anne Marie still in Beijing, in China.
We'll catch up with her in about 10
[music] minutes time on those particular
comments coming from the president. They
continue. These headlines keep dropping
across the Bloomberg. Crude right now,
Brent around 108, WTI around 103. Coming
up this hour, we'll catch up with Alicia
de [music] Pinda of HSBC with stocks
under pressure from higher bond yield.
10 minutes of trades with Beta Partners
as President Donald Trump concludes his
meetings in China. As Sebastien Galipeau
of SocGen with Kevin Warsh set to take
over the top of the Fed. We begin this
hour with stocks pulling back from
record highs as bond yields push higher.
Alicia de Pinda of HSBC still bullish,
writing "We revise our year-end price
target on the S&P to 7650 on" we've
heard this so many times "earnings
strength, but we could see it breaching
8K." Alicia joins us now for more.
Alicia, good morning. Good to see you.
Seems so many upgrades to price targets.
Can you just take a step back before we
get into all of the details? How stellar
impressive has this earning season been?
>> It's been amazing. I mean, you know, to
to put into context, we're getting, you
know, 27% earnings growth for the S&P
500 this year. That's going to be the
strongest really since post-COVID. The
number of companies that are beating has
also, you know, basically been since
post-COVID highs. And I think the really
interesting aspect here, this is just
not just a tech or Mag 7 story. Strip
out tech and Mag 7, you're still getting
13, 14% earnings growth from these
companies. Again, very resilient, much
higher than expectations. So, it's the
breadth of earnings which has been the
most surprising to us. But again, you
know, what continues to drive the market
higher here is the tech and the AI
narrative.
>> There's a phrase that I'm going to
borrow from a colleague of yours at
HSBC, danger zone. Max Kettner.
>> zone, yeah.
>> Talks about the danger zone. Are we in
the danger zone in the bond market?
>> We are. We're we're in the danger zone.
And this is the trade-off now for
markets, which as soon as we get uh you
know, the US 10-year bond yield pushing
above 4 1/2%, the market's going to have
to weigh the you know, the challenge
between higher bond yields squeezing
valuations and the earnings numbers,
which have been so phenomenal. But, it
is a concern, and that is the downside
risk here that if we don't get oil
coming down, if we don't see clear signs
of the de-escalation in the Middle East
and you know, progress towards opening
the Strait of Hormuz, if this continues
through uh June, July, um you know, the
downside starts becoming more apparent
for the S&P 500 here.
>> So, just taking your advice and looking
right now at a 10-year yield of 4.53%
and I'm ready to hit sell. Why shouldn't
I, right? I mean, if we're in the danger
zone, why is that not the logical
response?
>> view is that our base case is that there
will be some normalization of the Strait
of Hormuz in in the next month or so. I
know, our view is that oil will start to
creep back down towards the end of the
year, and that's just start to put some
of the pressure off bond yields. So, you
know, the base case here is that the
market is already pricing in a pretty
panicky kind of scenario, and we don't
think we're there just yet. I think that
you know, what makes us more concerned
is again, if this persists throughout
the summer. And you know, from an
economic perspective, a good way to
frame it is that uh you know, US
consumers have received almost $50 in
tax refunds this year. Um you know, more
so than than 2025, um the cost of oil at
$100 a barrel is $14 every month. So,
back of the envelope math is like, if we
continue to get oil at 100 until June,
July, that to me is when things start to
turn a lot more negative. The impact on
the US consumer, the impact on the US
economy starts to turn more negative,
and that's when we might see more
serious earnings downgrades.
>> One of the biggest debates right now
seems to be putting Paul Quincy versus
Sebastian Page. Paul Quincy tried to
diversify away from AI and different
geographies, but also different types of
companies. Seb really doubling down,
saying ultimately, he wants to get more
into AI and more into US specifically.
Where do you sit on the whole
diversification issue?
>> I mean in in a global context, we're
overweight emerging markets and we're
overweight the US. So, we kind of like a
bit of both. In the emerging market side
though, we're still playing, you know,
tech. We're we're overweight Taiwan.
We're also overweight materials in
LatAm, which benefit by the way from all
of this AI CapEx spend from higher
copper demand, uh higher aluminum
demand. So, you know, I I'm actually
leaning into AI almost everywhere. I
think what we are really focused on
though in a global context is two
things. One is AI adoption. I think
that's how you diversify. Go into the
banks which are clearly using AI, seeing
productivity benefits from this. Uh and
the other theme as well is trying to
avoid these stocks which are going to be
disrupted by AI. So, again, you know,
some of these sectors like SaaS, etc.,
where we think there's going to be an
overhang, whether it's true or not, I
think it's hard to disprove in this
current environment, but we want to
avoid the areas which we think there's
going to be fears around disruption. So,
in the kind of diversification
perspective, I'm fine diversifying out
of the tech, but when we go into the,
you know, ex-tech names, I still want to
be looking into the areas that get the
biggest, you know, productivity gains uh
from AI adoption.
>> When I hear EM, I always smile because
it doesn't mean what it used to mean.
It's now two countries, three names
making up a quarter of the index, the
MSCI EM index. Taiwan Semiconductors
14%, a little bit more than that.
Samsung, it's about 6% of the index. SK
Hynix is a little more than 4% of the
index.
>> Mhm.
>> We're reducing things down to just a
handful of names. I just got this note
from CIBC, Chris Hafe, I'm sure you know
him.
>> Mhm.
>> Chris said this, by our calculation,
this is SPX.
>> Mhm.
>> SPX attribution. Tech and communication
services have accounted for 90% of the
returns of SPX since the end of Jan
until yesterday. On an individual basis,
nine names accounted for roughly 90% of
the return over that period until
yesterday with Nvidia responsible for 20
to 25% of the overall return. Do you
think that's a problem? Is that
necessarily a problem?
>> I mean, you know, I I do laugh about
this conversation about concentration
because everyone says it's a risk. I'm
like, well, it's a risk in both ways,
downside and upside. If you think that
this concentration in the names that are
driving,
you know, the upside here are going to
continue to outperform, that's great.
And so, you take the EM story and it's
kind of funny because you're saying
that, you know, EM is not what it used
to be. I would disagree a little bit.
What was EM in 2000 to 2010? It was a
commodity cycle. Well, DRAM and
semiconductors are the commodity of the
AI era.
>> Smart.
>> So, is it not just that we're in a
different kind of commodity play here
for emerging markets? And I'm totally
bullish on that. And so, I'm totally
leaning into this. If I think there's
going to be more capex from the
hyperscalers, 150 billion dollars in
capex estimates just being added for
2027 and 2028, 20% of that goes to the
Korean memory names. I'm leaning into
this. So, I don't have any issue,
particularly when, you know, the Korean
stocks and the Korean memory names trade
on six times earnings. To me, it feels
like a bit of a no-brainer to go into
that.
>> As prices go up of those commodities,
those new commodities, how elastic is
that demand
>> for these particular goods?
>> I mean, I mean, it's there's almost it's
completely price inelastic. I mean,
you're seeing, you know, the the memory
names basically saying that entering
into three-to-five-year long-term
agreements with the hyperscalers because
there's so much demand for it right now.
And why that's so important is because
it reduces the, you know, price
volatility and it gives us much more
earnings visibility than we've ever had
before. Three to five years of, you
know, the big hyperscalers saying, "Hey,
we're going to take out all of your
supply." To me, that is a is a very
bullish narrative here.
>> Alister, good to see you. Appreciate the
interesting stuff. Great response.
Alister Pinder there of HSBC on the
insatiable demand for some of these
goods in tech right now.
>> And we've seen it in terms of pricing
power. I mean, just how inelastic is it?
Pretty inelastic, it seems like. And
they're being given a long rope when it
comes to debt investors that are
investing in some of these issues. I
think one of the skepticisms here is we
We what we're building toward. We don't
know the end point. When is it going to
be enough AI? When are we going to reach
some sort of equilibrium where things
stop moving at such a rapid pace and we
have to see keep spending this much in
infrastructure. That's one overhang, I
think, that's leading to a little bit of
anxiety.
>> From capacity constraint to over
constraint and that's the bus, right?
That's the over capacity, that's the
bus.
>> Yeah, or just what does the world look
like? I mean, not to go all existential,
but these are the questions that a lot
of people say, what is the ultimate
existence of humans in this AI world? I
know this sounds crazy. No, but this is
actually I mean, I don't mean it in a
negative way. I mean, truly, you know,
where do they fit in in the world that's
controlled by, you know,
>> Robots and AI. And the Nasdaq right now
down by 1.2% on the Nasdaq 100. It was
going so well. On the S&P 500 down by
0.9 with an update on stories worldwide.
With your Bloomberg brief, Yohai has
more. Hi, Yohai. [music]
>> Hi, John.
An Indian flagship sinking in the Strait
of Hormuz this week after coming under
attack near the coast of Oman. The Wall
Street Journal reporting India's foreign
ministry says Omani authorities rescued
all the crew after the attack without
saying who was behind it.
The US House narrowly rejecting an
effort to stop the war in Iran and
remove US troops from [music] the
region. President Trump saying
hostilities officially ended at the
60-day mark, a declaration that could
help the administration [music] avoid
seeking congressional approval for its
operation.
And US Trade Representative James Greer
expects the US and China to restore or
ties for agricultural products. Greer
telling our own AnnMarie Hordern in
Beijing that a new trade deal could open
the door for US businesses.
>> And we expect to also see an agreement
for double-digit billion purchases of
eggs over the next 3 years per year
coming out of this visit. And that's
more general, that's that's aggregate,
that's not just soybeans, that's that's
everything else.
>> Greer also confirming the two countries
will establish a board of trade to
oversee a cut down [music] on $30
billion worth of tariffs on goods.
That's your Bloomberg brief, John.
>> Yeah, Hannah, thank you. Thanks for the
update. Um, next on the program, tariffs
on the back burner.
>> President Xi is an incredible guy.
We got along and got a great trade
deals. They're paying tariffs.
They're paying substantial tariffs, but
we didn't uh discuss it.
>> Um, next we'll catch up with Anne Marie
Plunkett.
And we're going to try to evade partners
from New York City this morning. Good
morning.
>> [music]
>> Just a bit softer here. We're down by
0.9 on the S&P 500. On the Nasdaq 100,
down by 1.25. Record highs coming into
Friday. Heading towards a decent, robust
week of gains, but running into this.
[music] This in the bond market. Two's,
10's, 30's yields creeping higher.
Steady side up by five basis points on
10's [music] through 450. Approaching
5.1 on a 30-year. Jitters in the UK
around the leadership race. Much bigger
moves there. But also big moves [music]
in Japan as well. The backdrop globally,
if all these countries have got anything
in common right now, it's higher energy
prices and limited [music] fiscal space.
>> Yeah, right now it seems like when
people see a higher PPI prices and
significantly higher. I think it's fair
to say these [music] are huge beats when
it comes to some of the inflationary in
the United States and over in Japan.
People are saying, what's the offset to
this? Probably there will be the desire
to have more fiscal spending even though
there isn't necessarily the headroom
[music] for it.
>> Elsewhere, the summit wrapping up
between the US leader and the Chinese
leader. The President Donald Trump
making his way back to the US on Air
Force One. Engaging with reporters just
moments ago. Check out some of these
comments. Under Savannah's this morning,
tariffs on the back burner.
>> President Xi is an incredible guy.
We got along made a lot of great trade
deals including
over 200 planes from Boeing with a
promise of
750 planes. We didn't discuss that.
They're paying tariffs.
They're paying substantial tariffs, but
we didn't discuss it.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
Tariffs failing to make the agenda
[music] during a summit between
President Donald Trump and Chinese
leader Xi Jinping. President Trump
offering more details of the talks as he
returns to Washington from Beijing. Anne
Marie has more. Anne Marie, some
intriguing comments on a range of
issues. Let's start with Taiwan. What
did you make of what the president had
to say in the last hour?
>> Well, the president definitely wanted to
make sure he was socializing the issue
of Taiwan in a very delicate manner, but
he really pulled back the curtain and
brought reporters into the discussions.
He said that of course it came up. Um he
was asked about the six assurances of
from President Ronald Reagan in 1982
that you would not consult China in uh
in regards to arms sales to Taiwan. He
said, "You know, 1982 was a long way
away. She wanted to talk about, what am
I supposed to do? Not engage?" And he
said though when he was asked, "Would
the United States defend Taiwan?" And he
said he's the only person meeting him,
President Donald Trump, that knows that.
And he said he was asked about it today
as well by Xi Jinping. Xi Jinping asked
him, "Would you defend Taiwan?" And he
said he will in the coming days make a
decision about the arms sales, that $14
billion package that's been in the
docket that was not approved before this
trip. He said he'll be making that
decision in the coming days. So, that is
something we should be on the lookout
for, but he said, "You know, who wants
some war right now 9,500
miles away?"
>> Anne Marie, the Chinese leader is a
dictator.
The US leader is accountable to the
electorate in the US and in Washington,
D.C. I imagine there's members of
Congress who have some their own
thoughts about what should happen here.
What is the president going to arrive
back to in Washington given this
exchange?
>> Well, Jonathan, before the president
left Washington for this trip, he got
letters a letter from a number of
senators, Democrats and Republicans that
wanted him to move ahead quickly on the
$14 billion package that's waiting in
the wings when it comes to the arms sale
to Taiwan. We should note it is not
unprecedented for former presidents as
well to not immediately clear an arms
package ahead of a big trip with the
Chinese leader. You don't want to really
mess with the imbalance of how this
trip, potentially some of the
deliverables you want to get out of this
trip. It's a very sensitive delicate
issue. So, that is not unprecedented.
What is going to be interesting as you
note is what kind of pressure the
president gets when he lands in
Washington, D.C. based off this exchange
given the fact that clearly Xi Jinping
made Taiwan their red line. I go back to
what happened yesterday. The meeting
wasn't even over and what we had from
the Chinese readout was that Taiwan
needs to be handled appropriately and if
mishandled, that could lead to conflict
and a dangerous situation between
Washington and Beijing.
>> Amorie with the latest in Beijing.
Amorie, thanks for your work over the
past week or so, just fantastic.
Henrietta Avada Palanis joins us around
the table here in New York. Henrietta,
good morning.
>> Great to be here, guys.
>> How does Congress respond to what we've
just heard?
>> Congress is not going to take this
happily. Um there are so many more China
hawks that still exist in both the House
and the Senate side and their first
reaction to this China summit is going
to be why are we talking about Taiwan?
We should be talking about soybeans, we
should be talking about investments.
There are tariffs across $350 billion
worth of goods and instead we're talking
about arms sales to Taiwan which is very
much China leading the direction of the
conversation, leading this overall
meeting and that's going to be the core
takeaway for members.
>> What do you make of the trade agreements
that were reached in terms of the 200
Boeing planes versus the initially
believed 500 planes and some of the
agricultural purchases? How are those
stacking up in the United States?
>> Well, I really want to see the details
on the soybean side. I think it's really
critical, especially for farmers who saw
a 46% increase in bankruptcies in 2025,
that they have under President Trump
from his first term to his second term,
seen major shifts in soy purchases.
China has cut us off. The deal that
Ambassador Lighthizer reached in 2020
when they had their first major trade
agreement was for 142 million tons of
soy over 2 years. The deal that
Secretary Besson reached last year was
for 87 million tons of soy over 4 years.
That's a 69% drop. And now here we don't
have any details of any soy purchases.
The farmers are in a bad way and that's
a problem for Republicans across the
board.
>> The message coming out of these meetings
is that the priority is some of these
purchase agreements, right? That the
idea is to get engines and to get planes
and to get soybeans. It isn't
necessarily on having a hard stance with
Taiwan, staking a geopolitical place in
the world versus China. Is that where
things are shifting among the populace
in the United States?
>> I'm glad you asked. I look at this data
all the time to see if there's a chance
that Americans care about foreign
policy. It does not register on
Americans radar. They care about
inflation, prices, the economy, and then
way down at like 11th, anything foreign
policy related. They do not concern
themselves with Taiwan. That is a core
issue, as you point out John, with the
members of Congress and China hawks and
defense hawks, but it doesn't register
on an American public that feels very
pessimistic about their finances, about
their job prospects, and is overall
anxious.
>> Local issues. I see this play out in the
UK as well. When you see particular
leaders talk about these big global
issues, foreign leaders talking about
the US leader, I I don't think in the UK
for instance, UK's great example of this
by the way. When you start moaning about
what's happening abroad and the mistakes
other leaders are making
internationally, people feel ignored at
home because they want their local
issues taken care of. Are we going to
take care of those issues going into the
mid-term? Are we going to see more
specificities when it comes to those
kind of things?
>> I think it's important to look at the
bills that are being introduced as you
point out and I think there's two that I
would highlight for the average
American. One is how long is this war
going to go on? How long are gas prices
going to be so elevated? And there is a
war power resolution that allows the
president to perpetuate the war through
September 1st. That is the shortest
duration authorization of military force
that I've seen. There's other proposals
out there for 12 months. And then the
second piece is the gas tax holiday. And
the gas tax holiday does not have enough
support to pass but it's informative to
look at the dates associated with it and
how long lawmakers think that gas prices
are going to be high for. The bill that
was introduced this week by a Republican
in the house last through December 15th.
They are expecting this to have to go on
for a long while.
>> This is the federal gas holiday. What
are they doing at the state level to
achieve something similar?
>> Different states are doing different
things and in some cases they have a
higher gas tax so it's helpful. Georgia
for instance has a 33 cent gas tax.
They've already suspended theirs. Often
times states are doing 30, 60, 90 day
suspensions
but the federal level
the votes aren't there at the federal
level. So the president would have to
act the executive order which most other
administrations have determined they
cannot.
>> Just to bring it full circle, at what
point does Taiwan become a local issue
when it has to do with chips? I mean
it's one thing to say this is just a
geopolitical issue. It's another thing
when suddenly this becomes a massive
market issue and frankly every
electronic product issue that everybody
has in this country. At what point is
that connection
drawn?
>> Well, I mean I think the PPI data really
tells you that there's going to be those
costs that cycle through and it you know
whether it's the straight or whether
it's Taiwan. That's in your
refrigerator, that's in your telephone.
You know you're going to need to buy all
those things and costs for there from
PPI data being released. It's a 60 to
90-day lag before it starts hitting
consumers. So, it's coming for the
American public. Maybe they won't
recognize that it's due to Taiwan or
maybe even the straight, but they'll
feel the pain and it'll continue to
register in the inflation data.
>> Henrietta Treyz, good to see you. As
always, thank you. Henrietta Treyz, if I
had a bonus, I'm sure they're able to
draw the dots. It's pretty obvious. The
question they were asking is why you're
there.
And convincing the American public that
you should be there is the hardest task
right now.
>> Especially because our reserves are
down, right? I mean, how much have
munitions been depleted as a result of
some of what's been going on in Iran? Uh
questions of different troops that have
been deployed for months and months and
months on the sea. Where is the
willingness, especially with the cost
already rising for that military
incursion? Again, questions that people
want to know. How much did Xi Jinping
take advantage of that fact?
>> It gets difficult to offset that at the
federal level, not just in the US, but
in places like the UK, across Europe, in
Germany, to issue more debt when you see
the pushback coming from the debt market
at the same time. It's almost like a
perfect storm right now in fixed income.
Pushing back.
>> Well, Torsten Slok made this point
yesterday. I thought it was really
important, which is if there is another
economic downturn, where is the
ammunition going to come from on the
fiscal side? And how much are bonds
going to act as a haven as they have in
the past if there is this push-pull
[music] between fiscal stimulus,
inflation, and so much debt slashing
around?
>> goodness we're done with the hantavirus
now, right?
>> Well,
>> We're done with that.
>> [music]
>> We've moved on.
>> We we have, although there was a story
about how just natural sickness is
actually on the rise. I'm
>> [music]
>> I'm concerned about that.
>> to shut down the economy.
>> No, we're good. No hantavirus.
>> Lorraine Hutchinson of Bank of America
up [music] next.
Equity futures right now pulling back
from all-time highs. We're down by 0.9%
on the S&P coming into Friday. As of
Thursday at the close, up for a seventh
consecutive week, the longest weekly
winning streak going back to December
2023. Will we undo that, upend it
>> [music]
>> with these moves? We'll see. We're
taking a bite out of that move so far.
We're down by 1.3% on the Nasdaq 100,
driven by these moves in fixed income.
Yields higher stateside and worldwide on
10s right now through 450 of five basis
points on the session near the highs of
the year on 10s [music] and 30s and
worldwide levels we haven't seen in
decades over in Japan.
>> Unclear exactly what the lever is going
to be for monetary policy makers to
constrain this. You've seen the Bank of
Japan refrain from [music] hiking rates
again, even though people expected them
to do so. And here in the United States,
there's an expectation that the new Fed
chair, who is going to come in possibly
next week after today being the last day
of Jerome Powell's term,
coming in will not have the desire to
hike rates either, despite what we're
seeing in the bond markets. These two
factors really adding
>> [music]
>> to the mood in markets.
>> up the US curve again and just think
about where we are right now. So, 2s, as
we've stated repeatedly through the
week, trading above where the policy
rate is at the Federal Reserve. This is
going to be a really interesting moment
for the incoming Fed chair, Kevin Warsh.
What does he choose to prioritize? If he
tries to clarify his reaction function
[music] and anchor the front end of the
curve closer to where the policy rate
is, where does that leave 10s and 30s?
And how vague is he going to be about
what he wants to achieve with the
balance sheet at the same time? So, we
talked about this repeatedly, too,
[music] that every central bank chief
gets their test in the market. Always
happened, happened [music] to Powell,
happened to Yellen, seen abroad,
happened to Lagarde. Is that moment
starting to build for Warsh very early
on before he even gets in the [music]
seat?
>> He comes into a fraught moment where
suddenly the dual mandate of the Federal
Reserve is very much potentially in
conflict, although people are saying
they're seeing green shoots in the labor
market. And this is someone who has
traditionally been a hawk. I think it is
important to reiterate that. So, his
reaction function has actually been to
hike rates in the past. [music] How much
has that changed in the Trump era?
>> at five basis points 453 this morning.
Two hours away from the cash open, the
opening bell just around the corner.
Danny Burger
>> [music]
>> has your morning movers. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John, some of those higher bond
yields are taking some of the air out of
the hottest trades. The hottest trade of
course being a lot of the chips and
semis on that record run. So a few
things going on, that being one of them
too. Cerebrus we got this blockbuster
IPO yesterday. It rallied 68%. It's down
just about 1%. So not nearly enough to
undo the huge rally. But again, a lot of
optimism so that comes out. We also end
the US-China trip without any meaningful
deals around chips, around Nvidia for
example. So most of the sector down this
morning. Intel getting hit the hardest.
Down 4.3%.
Elsewhere this morning, Figma reporting
earnings and shares are up nearly 11%.
It's all about their AI-driven
offerings. They have Figma make a tool
that enterprises can use and they did
cite a lot of large enterprise adoption.
So positivity there up 10 and a half
[music] percent. Elsewhere in earnings,
Gemini, the Winklevoss twins, crypto
exchange also reported earnings. It's
rallying a lot, not necessarily on the
numbers but a strategic investment from
the twins themselves. $100 million at
$14 a share. So significantly higher
than where they're trading. Evercore
points out that were it not for that,
shares would likely be lower because the
earnings missed on a lot [music] of key
metrics. But those shares up 20 and a
half percent in the pre-market, John.
>> Danny, thank you. Appreciate it. Do you
remember the whip around over at
BlackRock? They came up with all that
money. That's the whip around over at
Gemini. It's not bad, is it? Some deep
pockets there.
>> I mean, when you start thinking about
some of these founders, [music] I mean,
wasn't it the the founder of Cerebrus
now is a $3 billion man overnight. It's
[music] sort of, you know, other worlds.
Other worlds.
>> impressive. Not our world. Pretty
impressive nevertheless. On our radar
this morning, President Donald Trump
offering more details of talks with his
Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping. The
president telling reporters on Air Force
One just moments ago he's made no
commitment over Taiwan and would make a
decision over arm sales soon.
Controversial. Elsewhere, Open AI CFO
Sarah Friar telling us here at
Bloomberg, the company may need to raise
more capital to meet surging AI demand.
>> We have seen an incredible lift in our
revenues to match just the demand that
I'm talking about. On top of that, we
have raised a lot of money. I am not
averse to raising more capital, although
right now that 122 billion gives us a
lot of optionality.
>> Friar adding the future fundraising will
depend on the gap between computing
power needs and what Open AI can afford.
And finally, Bramo mentioned Cerebras
Systems soaring more than 68%
in its highly anticipated public debut.
It's the largest IPO so far this year as
appetite for AI data centers and the
chips running them continue to grow.
That stock down just marginally this
morning by 1.6%.
>> Yeah, but as you were noting, the best
debut of its kind in decades. And what
we're seeing right now in markets is a
really warm reception for a chip maker.
And this is the key. It's a chip maker.
This is not Open AI. This is not
Anthropic. This isn't SpaceX. Although
it potentially sets the stage for a
really profitable moment for them as
well later this year when they IPO.
Nonetheless, they sit at the epicenter
of the spending boom from the
hyperscalers. They make a different kind
of chip than CPU or GPU. I was looking
at its clients. Guess who's in there?
Yes, Amazon Web Services, but also Open
AI. So how much are these all integrated
as well and relying on one another to
continue to profit as they build out the
AI.
>> In one word, very. We'll talk about the
K-shaped consumer in a moment, the
K-shaped market as well. There are
companies that have access to the market
right now, both public and private, that
can raise tons of money.
Can come to an IPO, come public and have
a move like that on its debut. Alphabet
can tap the bond market here, there, and
everywhere, met with fantastic demand. I
just wonder how bifurcated that is, the
AI ecosystem, so to speak, and then
everybody else.
>> Well, you've seen that with some of the
potential losers from AI with the SAS
copulates or this
software as a service that potentially
gets undermined as a result of people
using AI to build their own rather than
to buy their own. So,
going forward, this is going to be the
debate. How much dispersion should there
be? Who are the winners in the AI sphere
going to be? And will the appetite
remain for all the other much, much
bigger IPOs, it should be said, that are
on the schedule for later this year?
>> That's the K-shaped market. Let's talk
about the K-shaped economy. Turning to
retail, investors are awaiting earnings
next week for another reading on
consumer spending. Lorraine Hutchinson
of Bank of America writing, "We expect
TJX, Ross, and Burlington to speak to a
strong start to the year supported by
elevated tax refunds and trade down
driven by gas inflation." Lorraine joins
us now for more. Lorraine, good morning.
>> Hi, good morning.
>> Good to see you. How squeezed are the
consumers right now?
>> You They're not as squeezed as I think
people fear. And And remember, we're
getting first quarter earnings, so it's
a little bit of a backward-looking data
point, but consumers were receiving very
high levels of tax refunds throughout
the first quarter. So, that served to
more than offset any squeeze they felt
from gasoline. I think what's really
important, and brace yourselves for a
big week next week, uh the forward
outlook
is, you know, as
these tailwinds wane, what happens?
Because gas prices are still very high.
>> What do you think happens?
>> I think that the consumer takes a little
bit of a decelerating trend. I think uh
they trade down. I think they use their
dollars a little more wisely, and they
really search for value.
>> TJX, the last time they had a down year,
I think you'd have to go back to what,
2008? Something like that. They've had a
fantastic run.
>> I didn't say TJX would be down.
>> No, I'm going I'm going to say, are they
going to have another up year?
>> I I I think absolutely not. And And when
you look at, you know, we we've gone
back 20 years and looked at times when
gas prices spiked. And you look at
clothing spending, it falls. Jewelry
spending, it falls. Off-price retail
behaves much more like a necessity
and goes at its normal trajectory. And
the reason is their customer may have to
trade down, and then
an upward upper-income customer trades
down into their stores looking for that
value, right? Everybody's wallets are
squeezed. They end up taking share.
>> How much are we seeing a K-shaped retail
sector, and it doesn't have to do with
necessarily the income strata of the
clients as much as the success of
management teams to really put forward a
story that either works or really
doesn't?
>> Yeah, I mean, what we've seen in a time
of a little bit of consumer duress over
the past year or so is that if your
brand is hot, you were really able to
get that share of wallet. You know,
Coach, the Coach brand is a great
example of that, right? They just put up
a 29% growth rate in North America. I
don't think any of us would have
expected that a few years ago, but they
made some great investments in
marketing. They've really elevated their
brand, and they've been successful. Um
you can contrast that with a lot of
other players both in the handbag and
footwear space. They're not seeing the
same success.
>> Well, I'm going to talk about Nike and
Lululemon for example, which have been
underperforming and we've talked about
it a lot on the show. Uh John's been
talking about Nike and how they really
lost some of their uh vigor of the
athletic
heartbeat that they used to that they
used to be driven by. Going forward,
how much can we look at earnings as
giving a read on the consumer versus a
read on strategy given the results that
we've had so far and given the consumer
spending numbers that we've seen from
some of the big cards?
>> Yeah, I I the the results have been so
bifurcated, right? You'll see retailer,
you know, even footwear retailers like
On Holdings or Hoka putting up growth,
and then you see Nike putting up
decline. So, it's really a big share
shift, and I wouldn't say I wouldn't use
Nike as a gauge for the consumer. You
know, Nike just didn't innovate like it
needed to, and when you have competition
nipping at your heels, you really need
good product. Um they relied on some of
their old stalwarts instead of really
going out and doing what Nike usually
does, which is lead the market with
innovation.
>> You don't want to be apologizing. I just
feel like Nike as a brand has completely
lost its attitude.
And we were talking to the commercial
break before we came on about the Boston
Marathon and that commercial they had,
"Walking Tolerated." Right? Old school
Nike, sort of get at it, do it, get
aggressive. And then they were
apologizing for the walking tolerated.
People were offended, they pulled the ad
and went with something else. That's
kind of where Nike is at today. That is
not what Nike used to be. What changed
at that company?
>> You know, look, they're they're much
bigger and they now target not just
runners but walkers and I think they
need to remember that. [laughter]
Um, so what changed? They've had a few
different management teams come in and
again, I think they lost their focus a
little bit on sport.
They got into a lot more casual, um, a
lifestyle product and now they're
actually completely refocused on
performance product. Um, it will take
more time
because that's a smaller part of the
market, but I think it is the right
strategy for them.
>> From a branding
perspective, who's got it right right
now? We mentioned American Eagle as sort
of unapologetic, offended some people,
did not apologize, sales went up. Who's
got it right at the moment?
>> You know, I think, um, I think there are
several brands, Ralph Lauren,
um, Coach is certainly having a bit of a
moment. Birkenstock put up really strong
growth earlier this week. So there are
some brands that are are doing quite
well. Um, the Gap brand is showing a
resurgence that I certainly hadn't
predicted, but it's been really fun to
watch. Um, so yeah, there are several of
them with great marketing and good
product in there. They're kind of coming
back from where they used to be.
>> I think about the Gap CEO, Bram. You
talk to him a lot.
He just sort of personifies the brand
whenever he walks into the room.
Whenever he sits alongside us, he's
like, "That is the Gap."
>> Also, he had this to say about American
Eagle. He said that you shouldn't shy
away from controversy. You should meet
the cultural moment and he is a big
believer in
telling a story using cat's eye with
dances and gen um and trying to meet
sort of the cultural ideas of the time.
You have to kind of lean in at a time
where increasingly it's storytelling
beyond everything else. It has to be
delivered in sort of viral memes versus
some sort of billboard that delivers a
message that you have to adhere to.
>> Nike just seems scared, and that's not
what that brand used to be.
>> You know, ultimately it does come down
to how do you compete and how do you be
edgy? Right now, I was seeing New
Balance trying to be edgy when I walked
into a store and I was saying to myself,
>> what that was to us as kids, right?
>> I mean, you just you think about, you
know, dad
>> Weren't those like 30 years ago?
>> and now they're like platform sneakers
with new colors and, you know, get yours
today.
>> Lorraine is going to see you. Thanks for
being here. Thank you. Lorraine Hutzler
from there of Bank of America. I was
thinking the same thing, New Balance.
Honestly, they were the things that were
on sale. You'd never get me New Balance
as a kid.
>> You know, I went into
Foot Locker recently with a child who
needed new shoes desperately, and there
were shoes that looked like moon boots,
and there were things that were like,
you know, 5 ft tall, and they looked
like, you know, Tesla trucks, and, you
know, whatever. People at least are
trying new things, and then you saw
Nike, and it was just sort of sitting
there in the corner. It's sort of how do
you get your brand out there in your
face even if it isn't the most
attractive to people.
>> Cup coming up as well. Usually they've
selected the player with the biggest
attitude, a ton of flair to get behind
them. I don't see any of that happening
with that brand right now.
>> Maybe they're filming it. Maybe Maybe
I'm part of it. You just don't know.
>> is ticking. I hope you are. I look
forward to that. All right.
>> [laughter]
>> Nobody needs that.
>> Let's get you an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief,
Yohai Rasma. Hey, Yohai.
>> Hi, John. President Trump speaking to
reporters on Air Force One [music] as he
returns to the US from China. Trump
discussing his talks with Xi that
covered the war and in Iran as well as
the [music] situation with Taiwan.
>> On Iran, it's very interesting. He feels
strongly that can't have a
nuclear weapon. He wants them to open up
the straight. On Taiwan, he does not
want to see
a fight for independence because that
would be a
very strong confrontation.
>> Trump going on to say he will make a
decision about arms sales to Taiwan
soon.
Cuba has run out of the fuel oil it
needs to keep its power plants running.
President Miguel Díaz-Canel blames
President Donald Trump posting on X that
the dramatic decline in conditions is
due to what he calls a genocidal [music]
US energy blockade.
And LVMH is selling the Marc Jacobs
brand to a venture between WHP
Global and H&G 3 Apparel Group. The deal
coming as LVMH looks [music] to
capitalize on its higher-end luxury
brands including Louis Vuitton and
Christian Dior. [music] A lot of leather
letters there. That's your Bloomberg
brief, John.
>> Hi Yara, thank you. Appreciate it. Thank
you very much. Up next, hoping [music]
for a transitory transition.
>> Transitions are important and I think
that, you know, it is maybe helpful to
have someone [music] there to give
advice, but I still think it's important
that it be a transition because you want
to have there be very clearly one
chairman.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Sebastian
Jeffray of SocGen live from New York
City. This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
>> Stocks just off session lows down 1% on
the S&P 500. Negative across the board
here. On the Nasdaq 100, we're down by
1.4. Welcome to the Federal Reserve,
Kevin Warsh. Check it [music] out in the
bond market. Two's 10s 30s. Two's north
of 4%. That was a bit of a ceiling for
this bond market for a while. We've
[music] broken through it. Up by three
basis points today at the front end of
the curve. Up by five to six at the
longer [music] end of the curve. The
30-year yield just feels a little bit
untethered at the moment. 5.1% on 30s
this morning.
>> Unclear exactly what's [music] going to
pull it into check. And ultimately it
comes down to who is Kevin Warsh. What's
his reaction function going to be? Will
he be willing to hike [music] rates in
the face of inflation that seems to be
reaccelerating?
>> Day one on the job under Savannah's this
morning [music] hoping for a transitory
transition.
>> Transitions are important. And I think
[music] that, you know, it is maybe
helpful to have someone there to give
advice. But I still think it's important
that it be a transition [music] because
you want to have people's loyalties
undivided. You want to have there be
very clearly one chairman. You want to
have a place where there's no question
about [music] uh no question about who's
in charge and there's no talk of rival
factions and things being split.
>> So here's the latest this morning. Jay
Powell's term at the top of the Federal
Reserve coming to a close opening the
door to incoming Fed Chair Kevin Warsh.
Sam I just have a stock chain writing
the US economy remains resilient despite
higher inflation which should keep the
Fed on hold for the remainder of the
year and possibly even longer. Sam I
just joins us now for more. Sam good
morning. Good to see you. We've talked
about this repeatedly this morning. The
market often tests a new leader. Is that
test beginning a little bit earlier?
>> Absolutely. I think the bond market's
not only just testing the the the Fed
leadership, it's also putting Congress
on notice because you're starting to be
concerned about higher debt and deficits
which I think is what's playing out in
the very long end. On the very front end
the market's starting to price in hikes.
What is really really going to be
important for Kevin Warsh is keeping
inflation expectations in check. When
inflation expectations start to get a
bit unhinged, then he has a problem in
his hands. So I think, you know, it's
very very important for the Fed to
change its bias from easing to neutral
and be ready to act if needed.
>> So in June, that's the opportunity to do
that. They also have to put out
forecasts. So, just describe, and I know
it's early and June even now, we're sort
of mid-May, June feels ages away, but
when we get to that meeting, what's that
SEP going to look like?
>> Um it's going to be very interesting. Um
I don't see how the regional Fed
presidents change their forecast
meaningfully. If anything, they're going
to continue to show a bias towards
higher inflation. I think the labor
market's still relatively stable.
Uh so, you're not going to see perhaps a
a significant rise in the unemployment
rate.
Growth is going to be interesting. Last
time I was expecting maybe they'll start
showing
uh you know, concerns that growth might
start to to trend lower. That didn't
really happen. If anything, you're
seeing significant amount of investment
in in CAPEX coming from uh the
hyperscalers for not just this year, but
for the next several years. That's
continuing to support growth in the US.
>> Would you rather buy at the front end
with the belief that the Fed is not
going to hike rates no matter what or
the long end believing that this Fed is
more likely to hike rates than a lot of
people think?
>> If I had to make a choice, I would say
the front end, but I'm starting to get a
bit concerned because
uh bond yields definitely feel like
they're getting uh a bit unhinged. I
think we should be really paying
attention to the signal that we're
getting from the bond market because the
bond market's actually starting to say,
"Pay attention to all the dynamics that
are happening. Higher oil prices, the
potential impact of uh debt and deficits
not just in the US, but globally, and
then the the overall uh you know,
picture of this war is not getting
resolved anytime soon. The presumption
in the markets was that we get through,
it'll be a short conflict, and then oil
prices start to trend lower. But the
longer this drags on and the longer oil
prices remain high, I think that that
really sends a very strong message for
both Congress as well as um
you know, the Fed chair to be much more
vigilant.
>> message be dampened by a Fed Treasury
accord?
>> I think it's too soon for that
to be put in place. I mean, I think it's
going to take months to come up with
some sort of a framework that makes
sense
uh to be able to deal with this issue. I
mean, as it stands, you know, the Fed is
somewhat working with the with the
Treasury in the sense that you know, the
Treasury's issuing a lot more bills, the
Fed is you know, was is buying more
bills, and trying to reduce the average
maturity of its SOMA portfolio. I'm not
sure what else they can do over the over
the near term on that on that front.
>> That's the challenge. You can't play the
same hand twice. My memory's a bit hazy,
but was it the back end of '23 when we
saw the changes from Janet Yellen at the
Treasury to move the issuance?
>> Yeah.
>> And ultimately, the corrective action
from the Treasury helped yields to top
and then to decline. You can't do that a
second time. So, what kind of corrective
action could we see from the Treasury in
response to this kind of thing?
>> Not really a whole lot. I mean, I think
what you really need happening is on the
policy front. The Fed's going to have to
show some sort of a bias to to hike if
we see inflation expectations getting
unhinged. And more importantly, it's
going to be on on the trajectory for
debt and deficits. To me, that's an
under-discussed topic. If you look at
the Trump administration's ask on what
they want to
what they want for fiscal year 2027
for defense spending, you're looking at,
you know, the defense spending going
from close to a trillion to 1.5
trillion. Extrapolated over the next 10
years, you get some really really big
numbers for debt and deficits. On the
other side, there's just no willingness
to
address that issue. There there's not
going to be any near-term increases in
in in taxes.
We're not going to be able to grow our
way out of it. So, it's just going to
get continued to get worse. And the
longer interest rates remain high, your
debt financing costs go higher. So,
that's when I'm that's what I'm really
[clears throat] concerned about.
>> You've alluded to this a few times now,
so can I sort of spell it out? Do you
believe the best way to keep long end
yields anchored is to threaten to hike
front end rates?
>> Yeah.
>> Do you think that's an understanding
that's shared on the committee?
>> Um you mean the FOMC?
>> Do you think they get that?
>> I think that there are some hawkish
members in the in the committee. We saw
the dissents at the last meeting. They
clearly want to change the bias. They
want to be prepared to hike if if
needed. The question is whether the
chair and the doves in the committee get
the same uh message.
>> are left just out of interest? How much
company Kevin Warsh going to have? If
Kevin Warsh is indeed a dove because we
do really don't know that until we hear
from him in the seat at the Federal
Reserve in the news conference. How much
company he's got?
>> We know that few of the of the
governors, Waller, you know, um as well
as uh Michelle Bowman, maybe Powell, are
on the same page. You know, regional Fed
presidents are starting to to fray. You
do have people like Mary Daly who's
who's a bit more on the on the on the
dovish side. But broadly speaking, I
think the the consensus is starting to
slowly move towards
uh at least a neutral stance on policy.
>> Some real pushback from Michael Barr in
the last 24 hours as well. Pretty
explicit about what he thinks the major
risk is here.
>> Yeah, and he's just one of a number
we've heard of course from the
Minneapolis Fed president, from the
Boston Fed president, from Kansas City
Kansas City Fed president. Uh Eric
Schmitt who said that he saw continued
inflation as the most pressing pressing
risk to the economy. So, it doesn't seem
like this is a Fed that can remain in
easing bias. Do they understand that
they need to actually adopt a hiking
bias in order to tame the long end of
the yield curve? You know, June's going
to be an interesting one.
>> I'm just envisioning that June meeting
and TK around the table with us saying
OBE overtaken by events and that event
right now, if it was today, would be in
the bond market.
>> Yeah, and then the counter event will be
in the Truth Social market. So, again,
this is the conflicting issue. Are
markets conflicting right now? Because
at the front of the yield curve, there's
a real belief in a hiking bias at the
Federal Reserve. Is that adopted by
equity markets? Have they adopted
[music] a real hiking bias in terms of
their understanding of rates?
>> Symmetry, just going to say a thanks for
being here. Symmetry is happy there at
SocGen. Coming up, Eureka Hoffman
Bechadi of UPS, Tom Mortenson of Baird,
Anna McLachlin of The Conference Board,
plus Scott Chronert at Citi. The third
hour of Bloomberg Surveillance just
around the corner.
>> What you have right now is an
earnings-driven market.
>> People want to get exposure to growth
and strong economy earnings going ahead.
>> Earnings momentum doesn't seem like it's
peaking.
>> If you think of what's driving these
global markets right now, [music] it's a
semiconductor supercycle for the history
books.
>> It's the casting away of fear in its
entirety that will end up being the
market's biggest problem at some point.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
[music] Anne Marie Hoardern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning for our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now.
And your scores, the price action looks
like this. Pulling back from all-time
highs. We're negative across the board.
We're down 1% on the S&P, down by 1.5 on
the Nasdaq. With these moves in the bond
market, some new numbers for you.
[music] North of 450 on tens, up by six
basis points. And 90 minutes out from
the cash open in equities, [music]
yields making new highs for the session
on 30s, pushing 5.1%.
>> People are getting a little bit more
concerned as they see a yield curve
steepening on the margin, even as we're
pricing in rate hikes,
>> [music]
>> at least in the margin, by April of next
year. That's according to the two-year
yield being above the Fed funds rate
currently. You start looking at this.
What is it portraying? A bit of unmoored
inflation. We're getting that over
hotter than expected PPI prints around
the world, [music] and a lack of
monetary policy response to offset any
kind of inflationary pressure. And it's
not just who the new Fed chair is, but
it is a global issue. There is a desire
not to stymie any kind of economic
growth [music] even amid inflationary
shock after inflationary shock.
>> Look at the issues globally right now,
leadership issues in the UK,
>> [music]
>> PPI the hottest in 12 years over in
Japan, deficit problems there, the lack
of fiscal space across the continent in
places like Europe, then in the US.
Right now in the US, all flation [music]
and no stack. So, you're not even having
growth get hit, which might support the
bond market. You're getting hot reads on
CPI, on PPI, and the economy [music]
right now is pretty resilient. So, the
bond market is going to keep pushing,
and keep pushing, and keep pushing. And
at some point the test arrives at the
doorstep of [music] Chairman Wash, and I
think that test has come a lot earlier
than expected.
>> June they're going to have to really
move either to a neutral bias or even a
hiking bias in order to meet the moment
that we're seeing expressed in markets.
If they maintain their easing bias, that
would be a shock. If you take a step
back, there is a sea change underway.
You were talking about when you and I
used to talk about the linchpins in the
bond market, negative yields around the
world, Japan not moving, them owning
their bond market. We're now at [music]
a phase where we've seen decades of
financialization of markets, and now
we're going back to industrialization.
[music] We got to pay for that. And
we're seeing bond sales up the wazoo to
try to pay for that. And all of a
sudden, all of that capital that people
have had has to go to work. And that is
a new regime, and suddenly you got to
pay up for that money. So, there is a
structural overlay that also leads this
to be a higher yield environment in a
more natural way.
>> a different world. There was a lot of
stock stock buybacks, plenty of capital
[music] returns, not much cap ex driven
by the biggest companies on the planet
doing something very, very different.
Now it's changed. Now you're going to
start to see more debt issuance,
Alphabet on a massive [music] four
months, $360 billion worth. On top of
that, more IPOs.
This is where the story starts to change
in the equity market as well. The
members of the S&P are still the same
big contributors, the same big [music]
names that we've been talking about for
the last 10 years but they're different
and they're doing different things.
They're spending less on capital
returns, they're spending more [music]
on investment and they're now tapping
the bond market. And Alphabet's a really
interesting example of that because now
they're looking for different pockets of
liquidity in different [music] markets,
going to Canada, to Japan, to
Switzerland, to the UK, just trying to
find more and more space to make sure
this market doesn't [music] push back.
>> been received really well. I mean, the
numbers are massive and yet their
balance sheet's that much more massive
and people around the world really want
to get into their [music] debt because
frankly it's a good opportunity. And
tech debt has outperformed. It's the
dispersion, the K-shaped in both
consumers [music]
and also in companies and also in debt
issuers where suddenly you're going to
have a number of names that cannot raise
money, that cannot refinance and what is
going to happen to those [music]
companies? So, can you see a default
cycle within a boom market? Can you see
this kind of shakeout at a time of
otherwise strength? So, [music] these
are some of the reasons why people are
getting very excited about active
management.
>> Shaked eye to today's session so far.
Bond yields near session [music] highs,
equities near session lows. On the S&P
we're down by about 1% on the Nasdaq
negative by 1.5. Coming up this hour,
we'll catch up with Ulrike
Hoffmann-Burchardi of UBS with stocks
cooling off from their record-breaking
run. Ted Morton of SunOpta on risks that
could impact the tech sector and Scott
Chronert of Citi on why his preferred AI
trade is the Nasdaq 100. What a
rip-roaring rally we've seen there
through this year. We begin this hour
with stocks sliding and global bonds
selling off as inflation fears ramp up.
Ulrike Hoffmann-Burchardi of UBS
writing, "After a decade of mega-cap
dominance reinforced by passive
investing, it's now time for active."
Ulrike joins us now for more. Ulrike,
good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Let's talk about that statement there,
that quote. That's important. What's
changing do you believe that leads to
this moment?
>> Yeah, I think we're at a precipice of
new leadership in the equity markets. If
you look at the Magnificent Seven this
year, it's quite a dispersed picture.
You talked about dispersion. We also see
this underneath the surface surface in
equities. So, two of the Magnificent
Seven are down.
We have of course, you know, two real
leaders that are outperforming the
Nasdaq, but we haven't seen this before.
And so, we think AI is increasingly the
dividing line between winners and losers
in the equity market. And what we're
saying is AI is tech, but tech is not
AI. And so, for us, just investing in
Nasdaq 100 is not sufficient. We want to
invest in the AI leaders, and those are
companies that are in the semi supply
chain, but also, of course, cloud
computing.
>> build on that a little bit more? We
needed the bust in dot-com to establish
the ultimate winners of that era. Do you
need the bust in this one, or are we
already establishing who the winners
might be?
>> So, I think that's a great question. I
think so far, when we look at AI, we
have been in the opening game of the AI
chess. Anybody can win in the opening
game. I think now we are starting to
enter the middle game of AI. And in the
middle game, some players, some pieces
are falling off the board. And I think
we'll see that increasingly in the
course of this year.
>> I'll name some of the companies that are
struggling at the moment. You named some
that are down on the year. Meta
struggling, Microsoft struggling,
Alphabet is really not struggling. I
don't expect you to be single name
specific, but just describe the kind of
companies that are succeeding and the
attributes they have and the ones that
are struggling and the attributes they
don't have. That's the dividing line
between one or the other.
>> We increasingly focus on the physical
economy. Because if you think about what
happened with software, could happen to
other parts of the digital economy. If
you have more agentic AI,
what role will the internet play? Is it
going to be a transaction layer, or is
it going to be still optimizing for
human attention, right? The internet
right now is optimizing, converting our
attention into transactions. But if
agents execute more and more of our
consumption decisions,
how is that model of advertising going
to evolve? So, for us, those are some
fundamental questions. So, we prefer the
physical sectors in general, not just in
AI, but also in industrials, materials,
utilities that are empowering this AI
revolution.
>> How concerned are you about
in the bond space that are creeping
higher as a lot of the expansion plans
are predicated on being able to raise
money on a relatively cost-efficient way
in the bond market?
>> You always have to watch yields. I mean,
any the Achilles heel to any prolonged
equity market bull run are rates.
Um so, definitely worth watching. Oil,
of course, they know we have now Kevin
Warsh coming in. He wants to think about
shrinking the balance sheet. Those are
all issues that are weighing on the long
end. But, we do think that we'll see one
more cut this year. Um
Kevin Warsh is coming to the Fed at a
point where it's been most divisive
since 1992.
And we think that's going to continue.
So, we don't see a rate hike or cut.
It's just going to be gridlock in our
view for the next few months until
December.
>> There are a number of bond traders that
are shaking their heads around there who
are listening to this and saying,
"That's not what we're saying, and
that's not what we're pricing."
Just to do a bit of scenario analysis
here, if the Fed were to adopt a hiking
bias or actually were to signal that
that was a very likely possibility, how
much would that dampen your view for
equities to keep rallying?
>> I think we need to see a little bit more
than one hike. If you look back at '99
to 2000, right? It took five hikes for
the Nasdaq to turn. So, it would
certainly be concerning, but it probably
wouldn't change our base case.
>> So, I guess that here's a question. If
you're If you're expecting yields to go
down, and it wouldn't matter if yields
would go higher, what would shake your
confidence given the fact that we're
seeing certain companies that are
clearly struggling, and there is this
issue of how long run rates can really
keep expanding at the pace they have
been?
>> I think you need to see a sustained
increase in rates and quite a bit higher
than what we have right now. Maybe the
10-year above five would be more of an
issue for us. But, I think at these
levels, we still expect four four and a
quarter by year end. Again, if the
economy starts to slow, which is what
we're are in the fourth quarter, where
the fiscal stimulus is going to fade. We
probably have some pressure on the labor
market from AI. All of these things
together for us suggest that we may at
least our base case is that we have one
more cut in December. Not before that.
Powell by that time might have also
left. Uh that may give room for another
opening on the side.
Right? So, there's
>> [laughter]
>> there's a lot of variables that we are
looking at, but that's at least a
possibility to think about.
>> Some of this, of course, is highly
dependent on why you think you ought to
be rising. And I've been reading some of
your past comments, your previous
comments, that maybe we are on the cusp
of a cyclical upswing in this economy.
Do you think we are, and what's powering
that?
>> We Yeah, we think there are three
pillars to this current upswing. One, of
course, is fiscal expansion globally.
The four largest economies in the world
fiscally stimulating. Um then secondly,
we have this AI capex boom. AI capex in
the US is 2.5% of GDP now, and rising.
And then thirdly, the consumer is still
spending. We saw retail sales up 0.5%
month over month. So, you have the
government, the corporates, and the
consumer spending. To your point, if
rates go significantly higher, all those
three may be called into question. So,
we are watching, but it's not our base
case.
>> It's hard to fight. It's good to see
you. Thank you. Thanks for being here.
Ulrike Hoffmann-Burchardi there of UBS.
10s at 4.50. HSBC has called that the
danger zone. UBS just saying that maybe
that needs to be closer to 5% to be a
real threat to this equity market.
>> Calvasina of RBC saying the same thing.
5% really is the key trigger point for
some sort of material selling. Either
way, you raise a good point, John, which
is it depends why. And if you do see a
re-acceleration in the economy, does
that come with commensurate acceleration
in the labor market, as well as
potentially consumer's ability to absorb
some of those price increases? That's
the structural dilemma. A lot of people
are analyzing.
>> moment for the incoming Fed chair. If
you shift to neutral from an easing
bias, how do you communicate it? If you
just worried about inflation, that
doesn't sound great. But if growth is
better, too, that's a better story to
tell.
>> It's a better story to tell as long as
consumers are participating. That's why
it's such a fraught moment. If people
are losing their jobs because of AI, and
they aren't able to spend anything,
well, then is this really one that you
want to hike into and then crimp their
borrowing power all the more?
>> Yields up seven basis points on tens
approaching 455 with an update on
stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Yohai has more. Hey, Yohai.
>> Hi, John.
President Trump speaking to reporters
[music] on Air Force One as he returns
to the US from China. Trump discussing
his talks with Xi that covered the war
in Iran as well as the situation with
Taiwan.
>> On Iran, it's very interesting. He feels
strongly they can't have a
nuclear weapon. He wants them to open up
the strait. On Taiwan, he does not want
to see
a fight for independence because that
would be a
very strong confrontation.
>> Trump going on to say he will make a
decision about arms sales to Taiwan
soon.
The president also dis- also saying he
discussed AI guardrails with Xi during
the summit, including Nvidia's H200
chips. Trump says China hasn't approved
purchases because they want to develop
their own.
And Apple and OpenAI's partnership is on
the rocks. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg the AI startup is exploring
possible legal actions after not seeing
the expected benefits from its deal with
the iPhone maker. No final decision has
been made. [music] That's your Bloomberg
brief, John.
>> Yohai, thank you. Thanks for the update.
Up next on the program, the morning
calls plus. We'll catch up with Ted
Maldens of Baird on what could threaten
the historic rally in chipmakers. From
New York City this morning, good
morning.
>> We think that the AI theme is best
expressed right now amongst the many
ways to express the AI theme in US large
cap growth. You have high earnings
growth, high margins, and the
valuations, well,
for large cap growth in the US, they're
below the 5-year average. It's not
bubble-ish valuation in my mind.
>> Well, here's the move this morning,
pulling back an equity market rally
stalling, running into some problems
[music] in the bond market. Futures down
by 1.2% on the S&P, session lows, down
by 1.7 on the Nasdaq. Europe getting
hammered in today's session approaching
the back end of that [music] particular
close over in Europe. In the bond market
stateside,
Treasuries, twos, 10s, 30s, yields up
across the curve at four basis points on
twos, 4%. 10s [music]
up seven basis points, 4.55% on 30s,
5.1%.
That's the move stateside, highs of the
year. Check out the global move on a
German 10-year, the highest since 2011.
On a UK 10-year, the highest since
[music] 2008. On a Japanese 10-year, the
highest since 1997.
We've got a global bond market problem.
>> And part of that is because some of
these economies are even more affected
[music] by higher oil prices. The
suggestions this morning are potentially
escalatory with President Trump saying
that it
>> [music]
>> his bar essentially is a lot lower to go
in, but also a question of whether the
Strait of Hormuz will be reopened at any
point if, as President Trump said, it's
not our problem. You're seeing oil
prices go up. You're seeing PPI come in
at hotter than expected around the
world. And in tandem, [music] you're
seeing bond yields rise to the highest
levels in decades.
>> Look at the UK. Honestly, just bring up
that board again.
>> [music]
>> 17 basis point move.
That is not a pretty picture, is it? And
every single time this happens,
>> [music]
>> you see a much bigger move in the UK.
It's on the edge of being something
else. Not quite DM, it's something else
right now. And that's a problem for
leadership in that country. [music]
>> a conversation we had before where it's
increasingly acting like an emerging
economy, especially given the
uncertainty around the leadership. Keir
Starmer
>> [music]
>> potentially being challenged by Andy
Burnham, the Manchester mayor, who has
said in the past that the bond market
shouldn't have the control that it does
over the market. This is the bond
market's response or at least shouldn't
have as much control over policy. Well,
the bond market's response this morning
is, "Okay, [music] let's see how much
you can handle."
>> That's slamming the brakes on the equity
market rally. That's the price action.
Let's get you some morning calls. First
up, HSBC upgrading Cisco to buy,
highlighting stronger [music] AI
infrastructure momentum. Your second
call from Citi, raising its price target
on Applied Materials, noting increased
earnings visibility. And finally, JP
Morgan raising its price target on Dow,
citing the reversal of memory-related
concerns. Elsewhere, the SOX index
surging 70% so far this year as demand
races past supply.
>> Bloomberg's Ed Ludlow joins us now for
more. Ed, welcome to the program. Some
jitters in the tech space this morning,
but wow, what a rally we've seen over
the last month or so.
>> Yeah, and and so we start to ask why did
the rally sort of stop from Monday night
onwards? You know, there were very
broad-based reasons, shortage in memory,
um a very broad-based AI-fueled rally in
that 70% until the beginning of May. And
then that first 2 weeks of May, I was
probably John spent more time looking at
charts than I normally do, but if you go
back to sort of the end of March, Nvidia
is the biggest contributor to a lot of
that, right? Not just for the SOX, but
for the the S&P 500 and Nasdaq 100 as
well. And the more recent enthusiasm in
Nvidia was that the president would go
to China, irrespective of whether Jensen
was on the plane or not. He ended up
being on the plane and achieved
something of substance. And if you look
at the markets in the moment, you know,
one session a market does not make, but
there there's clearly a disappointment
in the here and now of what actually was
achieved and you you hire gave us the
comments from the president that while
H200 was discussed, you know, China
wants to support its own domestic
industry. Um so that's that's a big part
of it, but also the bar's now a little
bit higher. So instead of going from
increments of like is Nvidia a $5
company or a $6 company, you know, we're
very much focused on the fact that it
hit 5.5 trillion and that was a bit of a
ceiling in the moment. Um we're in
overbought territory for much of that
not just in in your Nvidias, but some of
the large caps like your your your prior
guest mentioned in that clip and and
some of the smaller names in the semi
industry as well. We've kind of hit a
top for now.
>> What's $500 billion between friends say
Breanna?
>> Well, what do
>> of days of trading.
>> Let's do what we can around and we'll
see what we can raise. To me the idea
that you can raise $900 at least or you
could increase your market cap in in
seven trading sessions is bonkers.
>> And thank you buddy. Looking forward to
the program. Ed Ludlow on Bloomberg
Technology coming to you in a few hours
time. Ted Mortensen of Baird writes in
the following there's a hoarding of
semiconductor supply ahead of price
increases. Fewer concerned about double
or triple ordering. Shortages are a real
concern. Ted joined us now for more.
Ted, welcome back to the program. Good
to hear from you. That's a provocative
statement for us all to think about. How
are you thinking about that just in
terms of the price action that you're
anticipating in the months and quarters
ahead?
>> Well, it's truly been a melt-up. I mean
and your previous guest
put it well. I mean, if you look at the
socks, it's up 70% year-to-date. But
more importantly, if you look at since
April 7th,
um the socks is up 52%.
Actually, that's a pretty good multiple
years of performance in a month. So
we've had this real melt-up. I think the
other thing is where I talk to my
clients, if you look at the
semiconductor index in relationship to
US GDP,
during the dot-com bubble, we were
probably 15% the semiconductor complex
was 15% of the GDP.
If you look at the global financial
crisis, call it 7%. If you look at
COVID, we were at roughly 25%.
Today, we're at 50% of GDP. So, there's
a a fair amount of good news
based upon the really really strong
fundamentals. I sit on 70-plus
conference calls during earning season,
and there's been 25 bellwethers that
have actually killed it on earnings. So,
the macro is strong, but I think there's
roughly six or seven macros that the
street's really not looking around the
corner on.
>> What are those macros that you're
thinking of?
>> Well, number one, I would say inflation.
Every single call and you you you know,
you've talked about it all morning on
the two, the five, the tens, the Japan,
and the UK yields. Inflation is intact
is everywhere, and I think everybody
knows it's in memory, but it's it's
everywhere from substrates to
commodity ICs to just availability.
Number two, I think if if you if you
look at models,
um where my worry is is just in the EU
and EMA, it's 30% roughly of all
diversified tech companies. If If
they're having problems from the economy
side, I think a lot of these
models could be stale over the long
term. Number three is shortages.
You know, if you listen to the Microchip
call, Steve Sanghi basically said his
die inventory is going to be depleted in
a few months.
We're running into because of the
Straits of Hormuz issue
as a contributor, we are running into
some shortages. Could we see kind of a
COVID golden screw issue happen in Q3?
Possible.
Number Number four, and think this is
the one that uh, people kind of put on
the back burner, but since the robust
uh, infrastructure build on data
centers, access to power is getting much
more difficult. And the the last two is
just um, more of the uh, Iranian
conflict. I the street is Yeah, the
street is totally uh, uh, bought into
this taco trade.
>> Ted, Ted, I'm wondering also where
Taiwan ranks on this, given the fact
that we just came from the meeting
between Xi Jinping and President Trump,
and there are real questions over
China's desires when it comes to Taiwan.
Is that entering into anybody's minds
these days on the earnings calls or
anything else?
>> No. Uh,
right now everybody's uh, overweight
TSMC because they control all the
advanced logic production basically in
the world, and they've uh,
they've perfected three and two
nanometers, so everybody's there. I
don't think the geopolitics uh, right
now in into the semiconductor uh,
thought process.
>> Ted, so do you think it should be?
>> I think over time it should be. Um,
it all depends what happens in the next
couple months uh, you know, in the
Ukrainian conflict and and the Iranian
conflict, and you know, if it gets uh,
spicy, I think uh, I think the scenarios
may change.
>> Ted, just a final question. You went
through a range of potential
constraints, shortages, power
constraints. We've been talking about
the potential of capital constraints as
well, maybe some pushback in financial
markets. Lots of people are having this
debate right now about what we might hit
first. What do you think we might hit
first?
>> I think it's the capital restraints. I
mean, just from the the buy side
perspective, look what happened
yesterday with uh, Cerebras. I mean, but
you know, look who's coming. Uh, you
know, you possibly have uh, SpaceX
coming relatively soon, followed by
Entropic. I mean, you've got a lot of
very significant tech IPOs coming. My
worry is that we we drain the liquidity
of the equity markets and it becomes
much more difficult. There's going to
have to be some PMs that really look at
their portfolios and see what they what
they have to sell to fund some of these
IPOs.
>> Interesting. It's kind of where my
mind's going as well, Ted. It's good to
hear from you. Thank you, sir. Ted
Mortensen there of Baird.
We've talked about this throughout this
morning, going from asset scarcity
coming out of the pandemic to maybe just
sort of abundance. All of this issuance
in the debt market, all of this issuance
in the public equity market as well in
the year to come.
>> Yeah, and what Ted was just saying
there, if someone wants to get in on
Open AI or on SpaceX when it actually
does go public, do they have to sell
Meta in order to do so? Right? Are they
going to have to sell Microsoft shares?
I mean, how do they make room for this
and how exactly are the indexes going to
be composed? Is this going to be now 30%
of the weight, these new IPOs that
suddenly are going to come and subsume
liquidity from other areas? It's a real
question. It's a different dynamic.
[music]
>> That's the supply on the horizon so far,
just tracking demand.
Demand for the IPO, solid performance,
good. The one we saw yesterday, demand
for the debt from the hyperscalers,
solid so far. We just keep tracking the
demand. See how it stacks up against the
wall of supply that might still be
coming. Coming up on the program, Erin
McLaughlin of the Conference Board as
pressure builds on the US consumer, plus
Danny has your morning movers. Cerebrus
pulling back following a blockbuster
debut trading day. [music]
The open about 60 minutes away, the
state of play. Futures down, just off
session lows. We're down 1.2 [music]
on the S&P, on the Nasdaq down by 1.7.
Krinsky, Jonathan Krinsky out for BTIG
[music] publishing just moments ago on
SPX and the record dispersion we're
seeing.
Now 8.56 [music] above 8.56% above the
50-day moving average, only 47% of the
names are above their respective 50
DMAs. This is by far the widest
divergence [music]
on record. We've seen all the
superlatives over the last week about
this market concentration, dispersion.
Things have got really, really narrow.
>> You haven't seen bad breath like this in
a long time, and I'm not talking about
eating gum. It's this question of can
you have a sustainable rally [music]
driven by just a couple of names? I
believe Nvidia and Micron account for a
significant proportion of all the gains
so far this year. Just two names [music]
that increasingly are driving this. So,
at what point does that threaten this?
And at what point, you know, you asked
this before, is it a feature or a bug?
[music] And one of half people could say
it's a feature and let's just pile in,
and ultimately that has been what's been
ruling so far this year.
>> Well, up and in the equity market, isn't
[music] really that this morning. It's
this. It's the bond market. Stateside
Treasury yields are near the highs of
the year, up by seven basis points on
[music] tens at 4.55.
The move elsewhere, going international,
even bigger in certain [music] places.
So, highs of the year stateside. In
Germany, the highest level we've seen
since 2011. In the UK, since '08. In
Japan, the Japanese 10-year, overnight,
the highest since 1997.
Some major moves internationally.
>> [music]
>> These are the economies that are
actually more exposed to the increase in
commodity costs stemming from the Strait
of Hormuz. And you've seen this in
hotter-than-expected PPI [music] prints
in Japan following the one that we saw
in the United States. In the US, there
are buffers. We're an oil exporter. We
are an oil producer. [music] That isn't
the case in Japan, that isn't the case
in the European continent, and that
isn't the case in the United Kingdom.
[music]
So, it becomes that much more of a
stressor at a time where there is fiscal
limitations with respect to the deficit.
[music]
And frankly, a lack of will on the part
of monetary policy makers to stave this
off from a demand destruction side by
raising rates.
>> Wherever I look right now, I just see
capital needs and [music] supply. This
has been a feature of the program this
morning. Wherever I look, that's all I
see. Alphabet tapping the Japanese bond
market,
>> [music]
>> going to the debt market raising 60
billion in the last 4 months across a
range of regions. Sarah [music] Friar of
Open AI, the CFO, speaking to Bloomberg
saying yes, we've just had a record
round of fundraising in private markets,
but we might have to go again. The
Treasury market, big deficits here
stateside even with a strong economy and
that's been the new normal now for a
number of years. Japan's got its own
problems, the UK's got its own problems,
Germany in the mix in the last 12 months
pledging to supply more. Wherever
[music] you look, the IPOs, supply,
supply, supply, a wall of it in the next
12 months.
>> Building is expensive. There [music]
have been decades where we have not been
building, where it has been fiscal
expansion, monetary repression, and this
idea that we are living in a
financialized market. You put your
market into stocks or into bonds, you're
going to gain money and that's it and
you can go on your way. [music] The
bill's coming due. You have to build
stuff in order to keep the economy going
in an AI era and increasingly that is
what we're seeing. Right now there is
enough capital out there to fuel that.
The fear [music] is what happens when
there's not or if there's not and that
ultimately hasn't happened, but you're
seeing just people begin to raise that
possibility.
>> So far demand's [music] been good.
Demand is met the moment, but there's a
wall of supply on the horizon we'll keep
on tracking. And for the man at the top
of the Federal Reserve now, Kevin Warsh,
an interesting first day at work for
him.
>> [music]
>> One hour away from the cash open, let's
get you some morning movers. Danny
Burger has more. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John, perhaps the poster child of
wanting and finding a way to fundraise
is Cerebras in their blockbuster IPO
yesterday, the AI chip maker rallying
68%.
Some of the air coming out of that this
morning as it does the entirety of the
semis trade. Cerebras down 2.9% Intel's
one of the worst performing [music] down
5%. Higher bond yields just weighing on
this rally that's been record breaking
in some measures and you have the
outcome of the US-China trips. No
necessarily big action when it comes to
semiconductors and Nvidia itself which
is down 3%. Elsewhere this morning,
Dexcom, they are a glucose monitoring
device maker [music]
for diabetes and for others. They
reported earnings and they were pretty
strong, but the excitement here is that
Elliott is taking a stake in Dexcom.
They've already appointed board members.
They're pushing them to make more
efforts to expand their margins. [music]
We're going to have the CEO on on open
interest in the 10:00 a.m. hour and
those shares are up 5 and 1/2%. Finally,
Papa John's
those shares also moving significantly
higher up nearly 10%. The firm Earth
alongside one of the biggest franchise
owners of Papa John's reportedly in
talks to take Papa John's private that
according to Reuters. So again, those
shares rallying pre-market, John.
>> Danny, thank you for the latest. Danny
Burger there. More from Danny around the
open and balance as her and Matt Miller
guide you through the open in the
[music] next hour or so. A new era
taking shape at the Federal Reserve. Fed
chair Jay Powell ending an 8-year tenure
as Kevin Warsh steps into a Fed facing
an uncertain path ahead. Mike McKee
joins us now for more. Mike, welcome to
the program. You and I've talked about
this with various leaders at the top of
various central banks. They all face
their own test. Is that test already
brewing in this bond market for Kevin
Warsh?
>> Oh, it absolutely is. And with the
economy being where it is, it's going to
be a real challenge. Let me start with
some good news, bad news. The good news
for Kevin Warsh is the Empire Index from
the New York Fed manufacturing in the
New York Fed region comes in at a 4-year
high of 19.6, but prices paid, the bad
news, is at a 4-year high of 62.6.
So as Kevin Warsh comes in, this is
Powell's last official day as chair and
he will be staying on as a governor
until who knows when. We don't know when
Warsh is going to actually be sworn in,
sometime in the next few days depends on
when the paperwork gets done. And his
first Fed meeting is June 16th and 17th.
So everybody's going to be keeping an
eye on that. But he walks in with these
black clouds of inflation hanging over
his head and Donald Trump's
tweets hanging over his head.
He's got to
contend with the fact that inflation is
moving away from its 2% target and we
had those dissents
at the last meeting from members of the
committee. He's now going to oversee
saying they think they should be warning
people maybe we have to raise rates.
Plus as far as the inflation is
concerned, we've got more tariffs coming
up this summer and out there the Justice
Department still lurks. Jay Powell
staying on because of that and there's
the question of whether the Fed can
remain independent. And what about his
plans to shrink the balance sheet?
That's his signature move other than
with interest rates. And already we're
seeing a lot of pushback from the people
he's going to be working with. Michael
Barr last night, shrinking the balance
sheet is the wrong objective. And of
course Chris Waller recently saying that
scarce reserves regime would be stupid
and massively inefficient. I don't have
a lot of confidence in the idea of
shrinking the balance sheet according to
John Williams, the New York Fed
president. So at this point he's got a
lot of opposition in a lot of areas and
he's got a lot of economic problems that
would present prevent cutting interest
rates anytime soon. So he's wanted this
job for a long time and now he gets it
for better or for worse.
>> Baptism of fire might be in the bond
market. Michael, thank you, Sarah.
Appreciate it. Consumer confidence
sitting at all-time lows as inflationary
pressures continue to build. Aaron
McLoughlin of the Conference Board
writing, "We are seeing more cracks
because of tariffs and oil and oil and
gas prices escalation will be baked in
for months even if the strait is open
tomorrow." Aaron joins us now for more.
Aaron, good morning. It's good to see
you.
>> We've been talking about markets facing
a positive supply shock. The economy is
experiencing a series of negative supply
shocks. So you've got a lot of
individual companies raising a lot of
capital pushing demand into a supply
constrained economy. Doesn't all of that
just equals inflation for the next 12
months?
>> Absolutely. Unfortunately, US consumers
are dealing with the shock of from
tariffs, which are still in you know, in
the supply chain and now an oil shock
and we don't expect tariffs to go away
and we don't expect the oil shock to
resolve anytime soon.
>> Where are the higher prices showing up
now and where do you expect them to show
up in the future?
>> Okay. So we know high prices are showing
up at the pump, but they're also showing
up for companies with diesel fuel and
jet fuel has doubled, you know, since
the beginning of the year. We're seeing
higher prices with food and we expect
that to continue. Now that's obvious
because food needs to be transported,
right? The cost of transportation is
going up, but food is also packaged and
so many things are packaged. So all
those petrochemicals that come into
plastics, that go to those Asian
markets, come back to the US, those are
under increasing pressure due to the
Strait of Hormuz.
>> That said, it seems like consumers are
still buying. It seems like there hasn't
been a huge pushback in terms of
consumers going on strike or limiting
their purchases, at least not in
aggregate. We just got retail sales that
showed that still demand. So at what
point are or are you starting to see
already some pushback or consumers that
might be withdrawing some cash from
this?
>> Right. So when we look at yesterday's
retail sales numbers and we take into
consideration the inflationary portion
of it, they are slowing down. So we're
already seeing retail sales slow down.
We know that consumers, you know, more
than 95% of Americans drive to work. So
they need to buy gasoline. They're still
going to buy food. Our consumer
confidence index still has, you know,
the last thing people want to cut back
on is sort of restaurants and bars and
takeout food and and pet care, as I was
telling you all earlier. So we know that
they're still going to prioritize some
of that, but it's some of the larger
purchases that we know folks are going
to cut back on. We also know that it's
consumers that are around $125,000
annual income and up that are that are
the ones that have really, you know,
keeping the economy going and they're
the ones that have kept the economy
going for the last few years.
>> How much has the perception of inflation
changed over the past 7 years or so?
There was a time when it was predictable
what prices would be at any given time.
Then post-pandemic, that was flipping
around all over the place, a huge
inflationary wave, and now it seems like
it's harder to gauge what anything's
going to cost at any given time, so
people don't really know. So, a lot of
companies can kick things up if they
want to.
>> Yes. Yes.
>> How much has the psychology around this
changed?
>> I think consumers, certainly
pre-pandemic, inflation really wasn't on
their mind at all. And so, the pandemic
was sort of shocked the consumer into
realizing that this is a problem, but
part of the issue is that even when we
saw it sort of come down, these other
shocks have been in place and I think
consumers are, you know, becoming very
wary because they know that there's
probably more shocks to come. And a lot
of that is driven by geopolitical
issues. You know, we are dealing with
the unknown. For example, if we have a
series of hurricanes and we see natural
gas and oil exports and markets in our
Gulf, you know, impacted by that this
summer or fall, that could be another
shock. And so, there's the known and the
unknown and there's a lot out there.
>> And yet Kevin Warsh calls inflation a
choice.
So, what is his North Star going to be
in the next several months, the next
several quarters?
>> Well, we don't expect the Fed to cut. We
know that um that the Fed and, you know,
our new Chair, Warsh, has has, you know,
a very political,
you know, sort of environment they're
walking into and it's very unknown. And
but we don't expect interest rates to
come down. We don't expect a cut this
year.
>> Do you expect them to go up?
>> I don't think so, but again, we really
don't know what's going to happen when
we look at 4, 5, 6 months out. And it's
interesting because, you know, when we
take our consumer confidence index, it's
a it's a flash point in time. It's a 2
or 3 week survey period. So, there's
times when, you know, just in the last
month, things felt like, "Okay, they're
getting better. Labor market numbers are
looking good. There's a truce." And
then, you know, a few weeks down the
line, a month down the line, and we're
entering 12 weeks of this conflict.
>> see numbers from UMich and just roll
your eyes? What's that survey all about?
Record lows.
I struggle to get my head around
[laughter] that.
>> There's There's room for different for
different numbers and different points
of view.
>> it, do you? Never mind. All right. Thank
you. I imagine they're in there at the
conference board. I imagine they are.
They're like, "Here's UMich. Here they
go again."
Record lows. I really struggle with that
survey. Record low sentiment, all the
bad things that have happened in the
last 40, 50 years.
>> People have looked at that survey and
said increasingly it has a political
element to it. It speaks more to the
polarization and the sort of
tribalization of politics. I'm just
still thinking about this idea if people
don't have a sense of inflation coming
down, and if potentially there's another
shock that could come later, why would
you delay a purchase? If you don't have
faith that that price is actually going
to be lower in the future. This is the
kind of concern you know, welcome Fed
Fed chair.
>> That's why consumer expectations are so
important.
>> Right. That's the reason why people are
watching these things.
>> We're looking for clarity from Kevin
Walsh, from the Fed chair, the incoming
Fed chair. And I think it's really
important. That's a feature I think of
the bond market today. That's where
we've lost one of those anchors. We
don't really know the reaction function
of of Kevin Walsh, the Fed chair,
because he didn't really articulate too
much of it in the hearing. There was a
failure I think in the hearing of the
individuals there for various reasons on
the Senate Banking Committee who didn't
really get to the to I think the bigger
issues about how he'd respond to
incoming information at any given time.
>> That's where there's a tension right
now. You've got the front end of the
yield curve implying rate hikes, but you
have the S&P implying rate cuts or just
rates on hold for the longer term. And
then you have longer term rates, which
are determined by a global trend that
really has been whipsawed by some of the
oil pricing that we've seen. So you put
this all together, it is kind of messy
and is ripe for some sort of shakeout
one way or another.
>> It's going to be a big meeting in the
next month, which is why I'm off for
vacation to watch the World Cup. But you
know, it's going to be a big meeting.
>> You're not going to the World Cup, are
you?
>> It's going to be a story worldwide with
your Bloomberg brief. Yohai has more. I
don't I'd never pay that, but I would
watch it on TV. Hey Yohai.
>> Hi John. We're seeing Cerebra shares
falling 4 and 1/4% but that's after
surging yesterday 68%
in its
>> [music]
>> trading debut. The AI chipmaker raising
$5.5 billion
in this year's largest IPO yet. The
surge driving the company's market value
to upwards of $67 billion.
The NFL releasing its schedule for the
2026 [music]
season kicking off with a Super Bowl
rematch between the Seattle Seahawks and
the New England Patriots. The season
opens on Wednesday, September 9th.
And workers at the Long Island Railroad
are threatening to walk off the job
tomorrow. Contract talks between New
York City's transit system and the
nation's biggest commuter railroad
hitting a snag over cash payments versus
wage decreases. That's your Bloomberg
brief, John.
>> Yohai, thank you. Thank you for [music]
this morning and the update. Up next on
the program, we'll set you up for the
day ahead. Plus we'll touch base with
Scott Cronert to see the and why Nasdaq
>> [music]
>> has more room to run. From New York City
this morning, good morning. You're
watching Bloomberg TV.
>> [music]
>> You're seeing you know, the memory names
basically saying they're entering into 3
to 5 year long-term agreements with the
hyperscalers because there's so much
demand [music] for it right now. And why
that's so important is because it
reduces the, you know, price volatility
and it gives us much more earnings
visibility than we've ever had before.
>> That was Alister Pinder of HSBC bullish
on this equity market. HSBC one of six
names since the start of this war to
upgrade their price target on the S&P
500 for year end. Equity futures pulling
back from all-time highs this morning
we're down by 1.2% on the S&P. On the
Nasdaq down by closer to 2 percentage
[music] points the jitters the epicenter
for them coming out of the bond market
this morning. Two's ten's and 30's
yields up across the curve two's through
4% up by five basis points now and the
pickup continues now up by eight on tens
>> [music]
>> as we get closer and closer to the cash
open.
>> But this is a global issue as a result
of oil prices being higher but also the
idea that growth isn't slowing
materially enough to offset [music] some
of those inflationary pressures with
demand destruction. The result globally
is a bond sell-off the likes of which we
haven't seen at least in certain places
since 1996. [music]
>> Almost 10 basis points higher in Germany
almost 20 basis points higher
in the UK. In Japan [music] PPI coming
in really really hot. Problems are
building this bond market at the moment
not so much treasuries but elsewhere
certain [music] pockets of it.
On the global scene just feeling a
little bit untethered at the moment.
>> is the Bank of Japan saying we should
have just hung on to those bonds?
[music] Why did we let the market out of
our control? You know, this is what
happens when you let them when you let
them run free.
>> That's the bond market this [music]
morning. That's what a market is, right?
>> Something like that.
>> They're always thinking about stepping
in. Anyways, we'll count you down to the
opening bell.
>> [music]
>> Coming up over the next few days your
trading diary looks like this. Today Fed
chair Jay Powell's term coming to an end
and Philadelphia Fed President Anna
Paulson will be speaking so look out for
all of that. Looking ahead to next week
earnings
>> [music]
>> Nvidia Wednesday the big one. Then
you've got Target and Walmart in the mix
as well so some interesting detail
coming out of the retailers
>> [music]
>> in the next week or so.
>> Yeah, right now we're going to see
whether we've got the same kind of
retail demand that has been the real
hallmark of the past couple of weeks.
Although, how much is it also the
K-shaped retail sector that has the
have-nots with some of them really
deploying incredible technology. [music]
>> Should we talk about the NASDAQ? What a
record run. Scott Chronert of the city
with this to say, "We view the NASDAQ
100 as a preferred play on the AI
build-out. Fundamental expectations have
demonstrated consistent improvement."
Scott joins us now for more. Scott,
welcome to the program. We've heard the
complaints. We've seen people nitpick at
the NASDAQ and the tech name sets too
narrow, too concentrated. Scott, what's
the pushback? Why stick with the
winners?
>> Well, I think I think that what this
market is doing for all the the noise
that we're contending with, whether it's
the inflation, the macro outlook, the
Iran conflict, oil prices, so forth, you
know, I think the guiding light here is
that as go earnings and earnings growth,
so goes stock price action. And that's
what you're getting out of the Q1
reporting period is it is in improving
visibility and confidence therefore in
this mega-cap growth cohort that is
attached to AI. So, if you're looking at
a sort of a mixed macro backdrop, then
you want to go to where the fundamentals
look like they have room to continue to
improve, this is where we're dialing in.
It's It's big tech big cap tech. And I
think the NASDAQ is probably the best
direct expression of that.
>> Scott, there's always this itch to
rotate. You could feel it at the start
of the year, rotate into the other
names, rotate and broaden out the rally.
That happened to some extent at the
start of the year. What changed once
this war started?
>> Well, once the war started, you took it
down a different path. Remember, we went
into the year, Jonathan, looking at sort
of a Goldilocks economic backdrop, soft
landing with room for the Fed rates to
come down. And what do we have? We have
We have the inflation spike that's most
most likely triggered by the ramp in oil
prices. And we've been talking about
duration of a conflict as mission
critical. So, as we're looking at going
into 3 months now of the conflict,
elevated oil prices and the the obvious
inflation read-throughs, you you you
have a dual-pronged bifurcated market
right now, where you've got tech beating
to its drum around the AI infrastructure
spending wave, but then the rest of the
market is acting much more like you'd
expect around this nagging concern
around um higher for longer oil price
influences.
>> Scott, does it make you nervous that
Nvidia rallied 20% in seven trading
days?
>> Uh I I yeah, I think on a short-term
basis, Lisa, you sure. You always when
when you see moves like that, um you
have to expect that there's going to be
a time and a pause for to to to digest
that move. But, um you know, when you
look at a stock like that, you look at
the price action for the past 8 months
has been mostly sideways. So, one of the
ways I'm thinking about this is is that,
you know, I think the past several years
what we've seen are these massive moves
in that cohort of stock, okay? That then
takes time for the fundamentals to grow
into the price action. Then you get to a
point, you get renewed confidence in the
longer-term growth outlook, and you can
rally again. So, you know, I think
there's a lot of repositioning at work
and has been for several months
within this semiconductor sector. Nvidia
had been the leader for some time. You
now have other options in terms of how
to position for the picks and shovels
play within the AI you know, construct.
But, I think essentially, yeah, you on a
very short-term basis, you have to be
wary of the price action, but underlying
the structural component here is still a
pretty pretty decent-looking outlook in
terms of the next couple of years, for
sure.
>> Not to end on a philosophical note,
Scott, but how worried are you that we
don't really have an end point in terms
of what the ultimate goal is. When is
enough AI? When is it sort of the
ultimate
end point where we see the new world in
an AI construct uh is that we can
determine who's going to be a winner and
loser not just in tech but also in
corporate America and beyond.
>> Yeah, you know, it's a really good
question and I think we're going to be
grappling with this for the the months
and years to come probably. I think
there's and we've been talking about
this Lisa, there's certainly inertia
right now in every C-suite in America to
make sure you've got your AI strategy
and you're pursuing it. But you have to
expect that along the way there's going
to be you know some some some pause in
terms of how you look at the
implementation of it, how quickly you
can find solutions that drive
productivity and then we're going to
have to be on the other side looking at
how this plays through to the labor
condition. So I think what your your
point's spot on but what we have to be
prepared for is that the underlying
inertia right now looks like it's pretty
set to continue for the foreseeable
future. But this isn't going to go on
forever, right? So we do have a window
here where we're going to we're going to
see this this spending benefit drive the
fundamentals but ultimately ultimately
gosh, we were talking about this a year
ago where we have to get to is a point
where the AI influence is really uh
along the lines of lessening some of his
of the historic earnings volatility that
we've seen in much of corporate America.
If you can do that then you end up
justifying a higher for longer valuation
for under for US equities.
>> Scott, 30 seconds. Can your bullish call
live with 450 on the 10 year?
>> No, I mean look at so so so 450
probably, okay?
Um we've learned in the past couple of
years 480 in the past to on the path to
five is no good. So as we hit this 450
level-ish, we're going to have to be
very uh you know careful in terms of
what the trajectory is going here but
there's no doubt no doubt that um yeah I
think the interest rate backdrop is
certainly going to be a headwind here.
And again what I would say Jonathan is
that one way you offset the valuation
implication of higher interest rates is
stronger earnings, right? So, we are
going to have this
>> [music]
>> this tug-of-war going on, but yeah, as
we push through 450, I think the caution
flags start going up a little bit.
>> Seeing that this morning, Scott. Thank
you, sir. Scott Chronert there of Citi.
Thank [music] you very much. Coming up
next week, stack lineup on Monday. Look
out for that. From New York City this
morning, good morning. Have a wonderful
weekend.
>> [music]
>> This was Bloomberg Surveillance.